Metadata:
Date:	2018-11-05
File number:	
CEL-79487-18
	CEL-79487-18
Citation:	CEL-79487-18 (Re), 2018 CanLII 141484 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/j0f5n>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/j0f5n
Content:


 
File Number: CEL-79487-18
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
 











 
 
 

NP and GS (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to
terminate the tenancy and evict ML and CE (the 'Tenants') because the Tenants
did not pay the rent that the Tenants owe.
 
This application was heard in Mississauga on October
31, 2018.
 
One of the Landlords, GS, and the
Tenants attended the hearing.
 
At the hearing the Tenants raised
the following issues pursuant to section 82 of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'): Failure to maintain the following: range hood fan/light,
laundry machines, upstairs washroom, exterior tree, patio door lock, antennae,
and gas line.  Also, substantial interference with the Tenants’ reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit due to lack of laundry facilities and use of
basement washroom. 
 
Determinations:
 
1.     
The Tenants did not dispute
the rent arrears of $4,400.00 owing to October 31, 2018 as claimed by the
Landlords.  The Tenants stated that they withheld the rent because the Landlords
had not responded to their requests for maintenance. 
2.     
The Tenants have not paid
the total rent they were required to pay for the period from August 1, 2018 to
October 31, 2018.  Because of the arrears, the Landlords served a Notice of
Termination effective September 15, 2018.
3.     
The Landlords collected a
rent deposit of $2,200.00 from the Tenants and this deposit is still being held
by the Landlord.
4.     
Interest on the rent deposit
is owing to the Tenants for the period from September 1, 2018 to September 15,
2018.
Section 82
5.     
The Tenants alleged that the
Landlord breached section 20 of the Act by failing to address/repair the
following:  range hood fan/light, laundry machines, leak from upstairs
washroom, an aging tree, patio door lock, antennae, and gas line.   The Tenants
further alleged that the Landlords’ failure to properly install the laundry
machines not only prevented them from doing laundry in the rental unit, where
these machines were stored blocked access to the basement washroom.
6.     
Subsection 20(1) of the Act
states the following: 
 
A landlord is responsible for providing and
maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in it, in a good
state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with health, safety,
housing and maintenance standards.
 
7.     
For the reasons stated
below, I am satisfied that the Landlords breached section 20 of the Act. The
washer and dryer were not installed properly in the rental unit from April to
October 2018.   The range hood vent/light is not operational, and there is an
on-going water leak from the upstairs washroom into the downstairs foyer. 
Further, I am satisfied that the Landlords substantially interfered with the
Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit by failing to install the
washer and dryer and leaving these appliances in a position that blocked the
access to the downstairs washroom.
 
8.     
Subsection 20(1) of the Act
does not contain an element of fault. Basically, the reason for the breach is
not relevant in determining if a breach occurred.  Therefore, regardless of the
reasons why a landlord is unable to provide a rental unit in a good state of
repair and fit for habitation, if they are unable to do so, they will generally
be found to be in breach of their obligations under the Act.
 
9.     
However, the Ontario Court of Appeal in Onyskiw v. CJM
Property Management Ltd. (2016 ONCA 477) has determined that landlord is not automatically in breach of their
maintenance obligations as soon as a problem arises and a contextual approach is necessary in determining
whether or not a landlord has breached their maintenance obligations under
section 20 of the Act. That approach involves a consideration of the “entirety
of the factual situation” before determining that a landlord is in breach of
their maintenance obligations.
10.  
Section 23 of the Act states
the following:
A landlord
shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit and before
the day on which an order evicting the tenant is executed substantially
interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential
complex in which it is located for all usual purposes by a tenant or members of
his or her household.
Laundry facilities / downstairs washroom
11.  
GS did not dispute that the
washer and dryer that was delivered to the rental unit in April 2018 was not
installed and left in the entry way to the basement washroom.   The washer and
dryer were only recently properly installed for use.   
12.  
Since the washer and dryer
were not operational for the period of approximately six months, I find that
the Landlords breached section 20 of the Act.  As well, since the location of
these appliances blocked access to one of the two washrooms for this unit
rendering it unusable for the period of six months, I find that the Landlords
substantially interfered with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit.
13.  
The Landlords did not oppose
the Tenants being compensated for any expenses incurred to complete laundry
outside the rental unit.  However, the Tenants did not provide any receipts for
these expenses and requested an abatement of rent for the impact of this
inconvenience.   
14.  
Based on the evidence before
me, I am satisfied that the Tenants are entitled to an abatement of rent
totalling $240.00 representing lump sum abatements of $40.00 per month from
April to September 2018 when they did not have laundry facilities on site. 
This amount represents approximately $10.00 per week for the inconvenience of
not having laundry facilities on site and relates to likely expenses at a
laundry mat.
15.  
Further, I am satisfied that
the Tenants are entitled to an abatement of rent totalling $600.00 representing
$100.00 per month for the loss of use of a second washroom in the rental unit. 
This amount is appropriate and proportionate to what the Tenants were expecting
to have according to their tenancy agreement.  The loss of use of a secondary
washroom had a great impact on the Tenants and members of their household,
especially when there became an issue with the upstairs washroom in September
2018.
Leak
16.  
There was no dispute that there
is a leak from the upstairs washroom into the foyer below.  ML alleged that
this leak had been going on for the entire tenancy. He stated that there was
water damage on the ceiling in the foyer when they moved into the unit.  GS
stated that he only became aware of this issue in September 2018, after he
served the N4 notice of termination and the Tenants advised that they are not
paying any more rent. 
17.  
Based on the evidence before
me, I find it more likely than not that the issue with the leak became a
concern in September 2018.   There may have been water damage on the ceiling
from something that occurred in the past.  However, CE stated that she first
noticed the leak at the end of August 2018. 
18.  
Since the Landlords were
notified in September 2018 of this leak, there have been a number of
contractors at the rental unit at different times.  The Tenants assert that the
first round of contractors just inspected the issue and provided the Landlords
with quotes.  It was only in October 2018, that some work was done to address this
issue.  However, the Tenants maintain that there is still leaking into the
foyer.
19.  
I have taken into account
the entirety of the factual situation, the Landlords are not ignoring this
issue, however to date the issue has not been resolved and the rental unit
remains in disrepair.  Consequently, I find that the Landlords are in breach of
their maintenance obligations under section 20 of the Act.
20.  
In September 2018, the
Tenants were advised by the Landlords to not use the shower in the upstairs washroom. 
The Tenants submit that the loss of use of the bathtub/shower was a great
inconvenience to them.   Therefore, I find that the Tenants are entitled to an
abatement of rent totaling $200.00 representing $100.00 each month for
September and October 2018. As well, the Landlords are required to complete any
necessary repairs to ensure that there are no further leaks into the foyer.
 
Hood fan/light
21.  
There was no dispute that
the Tenants reported an issue with the range hood fan/light to the Landlords in
September 2018.  GS stated that an electrician has confirmed the issue and is
just awaiting delivery of a part, it should be fixed in the next few days.  Consequently,
I find that the Landlords are in breach of their maintenance obligations under
section 20 of the Act.  I find there to be an unreasonable delay in addressing
this issue that was reported almost two months ago. 
22.  
Therefore, I find that the
Tenants are entitled to an abatement of rent for the period of September and
October because of this disrepair.  I find that a lump sum abatement of $50.00
to be appropriate in these circumstances.  This amount addresses the minor
impact that the loss of use of this fan/light had on the Tenants.  As well, the
Landlords are required to complete the necessary repairs to the range hood.
Patio door lock
23.  
The Tenants stated that the
patio door lock is broken.  The evidence before me was insufficient to find
that the Tenants notified the Landlords of this issue prior to today’s hearing.
 The Tenants sent an email dated October 10, 2018 to the Landlords listing
their issues and they complained about other issues with the patio door, such
as it doesn’t retain heat.  But in regards to the lock, they simply stated that
“it is not sufficient.”  Therefore, I am not satisfied that the Landlords
breached section 20 of the Act as they have not had an opportunity to
reasonably address this issue.  
Tree branches
24.  
The Tenants stated that in
August 2018 large branches from a tree in the front yard fell on their
grandson, who suffered injuries and their vehicle which was damaged.   GS
stated that he hired a tree guy who inspected the tree and confirmed that it is
healthy.  The evidence before me was insufficient to find that the Landlords
breached section 20 of the Act.  
25.  
Although a tree branch fell
from the tree in the yard, there was no evidence that this was a failure to
maintain versus a one-off incident which could have been caused by a number of
factors, such as weather.  
Antennae 
26.  
The Tenants stated that the
old TV antennae on the house is bent over and the neighbour has complained to
them because it is leaning over their property.    In the picture submitted by
the Tenants into evidence, the antennae appears still attached to the rental
unit.  
27.  
GS stated that he only heard
about this issue at today’s hearing.  This issue is not mentioned in the
Tenants’ email dated October 10, 2018 to the Landlords.  Therefore, I am not
satisfied that the Landlords breached section 20 of the Act with regards to this
issue.  The Landlords have not had a reasonable opportunity to address this
issue. 
Gas line
28.  
The Tenants stated that
someone from Enbridge told them that the yellow gas line on the exterior used
for heating the unit was unsafe.   GS stated that when he was at the rental
unit, he noticed that the gas line had a red tag on it.  He called Reliance who
inspected the line and removed the tag.  He submitted a copy of this service
call dated October 12, 2018 into evidence.
29.  
Based on the evidence before
me, I am not satisfied that the Landlords breached section 20 of the Act.  The
Landlords responded appropriately, effectively and within a reasonable time to
address the issue with the gas line. 
30.  
As per the above findings the
Tenants are entitled to an abatement of rent totalling $1,090.00 for the issues
raised pursuant to section 82 of the Act. 
31.  
The Tenants paid $2,200.00
after the application was filed.
32.  
The Tenants requested to
continue the tenancy and submitted that they could pay the amount found to be
outstanding in full by December 15, 2018.  The Tenants have resided in the
rental unit since April with their two adult children.  They have had other
expenses in the past few months especially due to the issues in the rental
unit. 
33.  
GS submitted that if the
Tenants were simply withholding the rent there would be no need to delay the
date for payment of the arrears.  
34.  
Having considered all of the
disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Act, I find
that it would not be unfair to grant relief from eviction subject to the
condition(s) set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1)
of the Act.
35.   The Act is predicated on a remedial nature.  The Tenants’ proposed
payment plan is not unreasonable in these circumstances.  The rent arrears will
be paid in full by December 15, 2018 and the accruing rent will be paid when
due.  If the Tenants do not meet the terms of this order, the Landlords may
file to terminate the tenancy without and further notice to the Tenants. 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     
The Tenants shall pay the
Landlord $3,485.00 which represents the amount of rent arrears owing up October
31, 2018, less $1,090.00 for an abatement of rent and includes the $175.00 cost
of filing the application.     
2.     
The Tenants shall pay the
Landlord the full amount owing in paragraph 1 of this order as follows:
a)   
$2,200.00 on or before November
15, 2018              (filing fee/arrears)
b)   
$1,285.00 on or before
December 15, 2018             (arrears)
3.     
The Tenants shall also pay
to the Landlord the lawful rent for the period of November 1, 2018 to December
31, 2018 on or before the 1st day of each month.
4.     
If the Tenants fail to make
any one of the payments in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this order, in full and on
time, the Landlord may apply under section 78 of the Act without notice to the
Tenants for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenants. The
Landlord must make this application no later than 30 days after the Tenants’
failure to make a payment. As part of the application, the Landlord can also
request an order for rent that became owing after the date of this order and
NSF cheque fees and related administration charges.
5.     
On or before November 15,
2018, the Landlord shall make the necessary repairs to the following:
a)   
Water leak in foyer;
b)   
Range light/vent;
c)   
Patio door lock; and
d)   
Antennae.
 
November 5, 2018                                                          _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Lisa
Del Vecchio
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor
Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 

