Metadata:
Date:	2018-08-27
File number:	
CEL-77588-18
	CEL-77588-18
Citation:	CEL-77588-18 (Re), 2018 CanLII 88555 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hv7l4>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hv7l4
Content:


 
 
File Number: CEL-77588-18
Order under Sections 35
and 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 











 

HRS and ZRS (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to
terminate the tenancy and evict SA (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant did not
pay the rent that the Tenant owes (L1 application).
 
The Landlords also applied for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict the Tenant because the Tenant, another occupant of the
rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the premises; and has persistently
paid the rent late. The Landlords also applied for an order requiring the
Tenant to compensate the Landlords for the damage (L2 application).
 
The Landlords also applied for an order requiring the
Tenant to pay the Landlord for the cost of changing the lock on the door to the
rental unit because the Tenant changed the lock without the Landlords’ consent
(L8 application).
 
This L1/L2/L8 application was heard in Mississauga on
August 8, 2018.
 
The Landlord, ZRS and the Tenant
attended the hearing. The Landlord was represented by SF. The Tenant was
represented by FA.
 
Determinations and Reasons:
 
1.     
The tenancy commenced in May
2017. There was a one year term lease and the tenancy is now month-to-month.
The Tenant rents the entire townhouse. He, his wife and their five children
live in the townhouse.
The Rent Arrears
2.     
The monthly rent is
$2,350.00.
3.     
The Tenant has not paid
$2,350.00 of the total rent the Tenant was required to pay for the period from
March 1, 2018 to August 31, 2018. Because of the arrears, the Landlords served
a N4 Notice of Termination effective July 13, 2018.
4.     
The N4 Notice of Termination
that the L1 application is based on is not valid. The termination date in the
N4 notice is not at least 14 days after the N4 notice was given to the Tenant,
as required by subsection 59(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the ‘Act’). 
5.     
The N4 notice was mailed to
the Tenant on June 26, 2018 and it is deemed to have been given 5 days after
mailing in accordance with subsection 191(3) of the Act. With the additional
days added for mailing, the termination date in the N4 notice is not at least
14 days after it was deemed received.
6.     
Since the N4 notice is not
valid, there is no jurisdiction to terminate the tenancy under the L1
application. The Landlord requested an order for the rent arrears owing.
7.     
There is no dispute that the
Tenant owes $2,350.00 to the Landlord up to August 31, 2018. The Tenant was
having financial difficulties earlier this year and wanted to use the last
month's rent deposit to cover the rent he did not pay in March/April 2018. 
8.     
The Tenant was not aware
that subsection 106(10) of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006, (the ‘Act’) states that the
last month's rent deposit must be applied to the last month of the tenancy. Now
that he is aware of that, he stated that he can pay the amount owing by September
10, 2018. 
9.     
The Landlords collected a
rent deposit of $2,350.00 from the Tenant and this deposit is still being held
by the Landlords. Interest on the rent deposit is owing to the Tenant for the
period from April 19, 2017.
Persistent Late Payment of Rent
10.  
The Tenant initially stated
that he did not receive the N8 Notice of Termination. The Landlords provided
proof it was sent by registered mail and signed for when received by the
Tenant. Therefore, I am satisfied that the Tenant received the N8 notice.
11.  
The Tenant has persistently
paid the rent late. The rent is due on the first day of each month. The rent
was paid late every month from October 2017 to May 2018.
12.  
The Tenant stated that he
had a high paying job in the United States which he lost last year and this led
to financial difficulties from December 2017 through to May of this year.
13.  
The rent for June, July and
August 2018 were all paid on time. This is not disputed. The Tenant now has a
new full-time job and stated that he can pay the rent on time from now on.
14.  
I have considered all of the
disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') and find that it would not be unfair to
grant relief from eviction subject to the condition(s) set out in this order
pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1) of the Act. The Tenant is
ordered to pay the rent on time for a one year period. If the rent is not paid
on time as ordered below, the Landlords can request to terminate the tenancy
under the provisions of section 78 of the Act.
Lock Change
15.  
There is no dispute that the
Tenant changed the lock on the door giving entry to the rental unit without the
Landlords’ consent.
16.  
The Tenant and his wife have
five children. To make it easier for his kids to access the unit, the Tenant
changed the key lock to a new modern lock which has a key pad so the door can
be unlocked by pressing a number code instead of using a key. However, this
lock can also be opened by a standard key if needed.
17.  
The Tenant gave the
Landlords a copy of the key to the new lock at the hearing.
18.  
However, the Landlords would
like the lock changed back to the original lock that was on the door when the
Tenant moved in.
19.  
The unit is a townhouse
located in a condominium complex. The Landlords stated that the condominium
corporation requires that the same lock be used on all entrance doors and the
key pad lock is not permissible. The Tenant requested proof of this but the
Landlords were not able to provide any evidence of this.
20.  
A picture was provided of
the new lock. It is the same colour as the old lock, matches the door handle
and is not unsightly in any way.
21.  
In any event, the Landlord
provided insufficient evidence to support the amount claimed to change the lock
back to a lock similar to the one that used to be on the door. They had no
receipts or invoices to support the amount claimed.
22.  
Subsection 35(3) of the Act
states that the Board may order that the Tenant provide the Landlords with a
key to the new lock or pay the Landlords the reasonable cost of
changing the lock.
23.  
Since the Landlords have
been given a copy of the key to the existing door lock, the key pad lock can
remain on the door. However, since the Landlords object to the style of the new
lock, the Tenant shall change the lock back to the original style of lock on or
before moving out/vacating the rental unit.
Damage to the Rental Unit
24.  
The L2 application regarding
damage is based on an N7 and an N5 Notice of Termination with the same damage
claimed. At the hearing, the parties agreed that the damage issue would proceed
under the N5 notice which claimed negligently caused damage and the N7
notice claiming wilfully caused damage would not be considered.
25.  
The Landlords used to live
in the townhouse before renting it out. They purchased it in 2015 and it was
already about 13 years old at that time. The Landlords provided photos to show
they kept the property in pristine condition when they lived there.
26.  
While I have no doubt that
the townhouse is no longer kept in pristine condition and that there has been
wear and tear resulting from the Tenant’s large family, section 89 of the Act
requires that the Landlord establish undue damage.
27.  
The Landlord prefers that
that Tenant fix the damage and is only seeking payment of an amount for damage
if the Tenant fails to fix the damage. 
28.  
Section 89 of the Act
permits reasonable repair costs to be claimed. The Landlords are seeking
$10,000.00 to repair the alleged damage. They provided a quote to support the
amount. However, I am not satisfied that the cost claimed is a reasonable cost
of repair. The quote was inflated in many areas. For example, a cost of $350.00
is quoted to re-align the door hinge on the cold room door, an additional
$350.00 is quoted to re-align the doors hinges on some kitchen cupboard doors
and $850.00 is quoted to reattach the missing insulation from one section of
the unfinished basement wall.
29.  
The Tenant agreed that some
of the items being claimed by the Landlord are damage that the Tenant is
responsible for since either he or his five children were the cause of the
damage.
30.  
The Tenant provided
photographs at the hearing which established that the Tenant has fixed or
remedied the damaged bedroom wall by removing the stickers/marks/coloring his
child put on walls in one of the children’s bedrooms and has also re-attached
the hanging smoke detector to the ceiling.
31.  
The Tenant has attempted to
re-attach insulation in the basement that fell or was knocked down while his
children were playing. However, the photos show a gap in the insulation or
small areas of the wall that are not fully covered. Therefore, the Tenant is
being ordered to reattach the insulation in a manner that fully covers the
wall.
32.  
The Landlords, as the
applicants, have the burden of proving the claims in their application. The
Landlords failed to establish that the Tenant or his family were the cause of undue
damage to the following: leaking kitchen tap; shifting laminate floor boards
causing gaps in one area of the living room and in the master bedroom; kitchen
cupboard doors not fully aligned; cold room door not fully aligned;
condensation build up/leak in furnace; cracked tile around the master bathtub;
and water leak mark on living room ceiling.
33.  
While there is no dispute
the tap leaked until the Landlord replaced it or that there is a gap in a few
laminate floor boards, the Landlords failed to establish that it was the result
of any action of the Tenant or his family that caused these issues.
34.  
The Landlords argued that
there must be extreme fluctuations in temperature in the home since a flooring contractor
told them that could cause the floor boards to shift and create gaps. 
35.  
However, this is mere
speculation. There was no evidence to suggest that the Tenant sets the heating
or cooling in the house to extreme temperatures.
36.  
The Tenant very reasonably
argued that if he did so he and his own family would be uncomfortable by the
extreme fluctuations. Also, it would be expected that the floor boards would be
shifting in every room and not just in two areas of the home.
37.  
The Landlords believe that
anything that goes wrong at the property after the Tenants took possession of
the rental unit must have been caused by the Tenants. However, there is normal
and expected wear and tear in a home. Also, things go wrong unexpectedly and items
and equipment break down sometimes through no fault of anyone.
38.  
This belief is supported by
the written tenancy agreement which states that the Tenants are responsible to maintenance
fixtures and appliances and repair all wear and tear at their own expense.
39.  
Yet, section 89 of the Act
is clear that the Tenant is only responsible for undue damage that they
wilfully or negligently caused. Section 4 of the Act states that any term of a
tenancy agreement that is inconsistent with the Act is void.
40.  
The Landlords provided
insufficient or no evidence which would suggest that the Tenant or his family
were the cause of the kitchen tap drip/leak or the condensation/leak in the ac/furnace.
The Landlords’ estimate states that the kitchen tap had a small leak in the cartridge.
It is not clear how the Tenant or his family could have caused this and it is
more likely than not the result of normal wear and tear and break down of
parts.
41.  
A few kitchen cupboard doors
are not perfectly aligned with each other but that can be easily remedied by
adjusting the door hinges. The photos the Tenants provided of the doors
establish there is no undue damage to the kitchen cupboard doors. The
same is true of the cold room door.
42.  
There is no dispute that
there is a cracked tile in the tub deck around the master bathroom tub. The
Landlords stated that the Tenant or his family must have caused it. The Tenant
argued that it is the result of poor workmanship and shifting since the grout
around the tile is missing and/or cracked.
43.  
There was insufficient
evidence provide to conclude that the Tenant or his family negligently caused
the cracked tile around the bathtub.
44.  
There is no dispute that
there is a brown water mark/stain on living room ceiling. The Landlords believe
there was a leak from the bathroom above the living room that caused the stain.
45.  
However, the Landlords’ home
inspection report dated June 1, 2018 states that there were no signs of active
leaking and further investigation is recommended by an expert. The report also
notes loose shingles on the roof and recommends remedial work by a licensed
roofer. This could be a potential cause of a water leak.
46.  
There is no dispute that the
toilet in the main floor powder room overflowed. Some water seeped down into
the unfinished basement below the bathroom. The Landlords did not establish any
undue damage from this. The water that pooled on the concrete floor was either
mopped up or evaporated over time.
47.  
It is not enough for the
Landlords to prove that there is a defect in an area of the home. Section 89 of
the Act requires that the Landlords establish undue damage and that the Tenant,
his guests or his family caused it. This was not established for the majority of
the items claimed.
48.  
The Tenant and/or his
children caused undue damage to the toilet at the rental unit. The Tenant is
responsible for the $270.01 cost of the fixing the clogged toilet in the
children’s bathroom. The Landlords provided an invoice from Roto-Router to
establish the amount.
49.  
The invoice from Roto-Router
as well as the Landlord’s photos show that the toilet in the children’s
bathroom was clogged with items such as a paper clip and a plastic food
container. 
50.  
It is more likely than not
that one of the Tenant’s five children flushed the items down the toilet since
they are the usual types of items you would expect to see stuck in the toilet.
51.  
I have considered all of the
disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') and find that it would not be unfair to
grant relief from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) of the Act. The
damage that was established is relatively minor and does not justify
termination of the tenancy. 
Tenant’s Request for a Rent Abatement
52.  
The Tenant argued that many
of the items clamed as damage are actually maintenance issues that the
Landlords are responsible for. He requested a rent abatement of 25% for the
period from May to August 2018.
53.  
No rent abatement is
warranted in the circumstances. Most of the times are nuisance or inconvenience
type items such as misaligned cabinet doors and are likely the result of the
heavy usage by the Tenant’s large family. Items such as a cracked tile or a
brown mark on the living room ceiling do not impact on the Tenant’s ability to
make full and normal use of the rental unit. 
54.  
When larger issues were
brought to the Landlords’ attention, such as the broken dishwasher, the
Landlords responded promptly to fix the issues.
55.  
The Tenant argued that the
three toilets at the rental unit need to be replaced since they clog frequently
and must not be standard size. No evidence was presented to establish that the
toilets are unusual in size. The Roto-Router invoice states that all toilets
were augured and are in good working order. Any issues with clogging are more
likely than not the result of heavy usage by the Tenant’s five children.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     
The Tenant shall pay to the
Landlords $2,350.00, which represents the amount of rent owing up to August 31,
2018.
2.     
The Tenant shall also pay to
the Landlords $190.00 for the cost of filing the application.
3.     
The Tenant shall also pay to
the Landlords $270.01 for the cost of repairing damage.
4.     
If the Tenant does not pay
the Landlords the full amount owing on or before September 10, 2018, the Tenant
will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from
September 11, 2018 at 3.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
5.     
The Tenant shall also pay
the Landlords the full September rent on or before September 10, 2018.
6.     
The Tenant shall also pay the Landlords the full
monthly rent on or before the first day of each month for a twelve month period
commencing October 1, 2018 through to and including September 1, 2019.
7.     
If the Tenant fails to make
any one of the payments ordered in paragraph 5 or 6, in full and on time, the
Landlords may apply under section 78 of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006, without notice to the Tenant for an order terminating the tenancy and
evicting the Tenant. The Landlords must make this application no later than 30
days after the Tenant’s failure to make a payment. 
8.     
On or before September 30,
2018 the Tenant shall re-attach the fallen wall insulation and plastic vapour
barrier to the portion of the basement wall where the insulation has fallen
down so that the wall is fully covered and no exposed areas are seen.
9.     
Prior to vacating the rental
unit, the Tenant shall replace the key pad lock on the front door with a lock
that is similar to the original door lock. 
                                                                                                
August 27, 2018                                                              _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Karen
Wallace
                                                                                                                           Vice
Chair, Landlord and Tenant Board
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor
Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
This order contains all of the
reasons for the determinations and order. No further reasons will be issued.
 

