Metadata:
Date:	2018-04-17
File number:	
CEL-74519-18
	CEL-74519-18
Citation:	CEL-74519-18 (Re), 2018 CanLII 88529 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hv7jt>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hv7jt
Content:


File
Number: CEL-74519-18
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 











 
 
 

TJ (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict SLP (the 'Tenant') because the Landlord requires
possession of the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation; and
because the Tenant has been persistently late in paying the Tenant's rent. The
Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit
after the termination date.
 
This application was heard in Mississauga on April 12,
2018.
 
The Landlord and the Tenant and
the Tenant’s Legal Representative, attended the hearing.
 
At the hearing, the Landlord initially
requested an adjournment to obtain legal representation because the Tenant
presented him with a letter about her medical condition. In order to avoid an
adjournment, the Tenant undertook not to rely on the letter, the contents of
which I did not read. The hearing proceeded accordingly.
 
The spelling of the Tenant’s name
has been corrected in the title of proceedings.
 
Determinations and Reasons:
 
N12 Landlord Requires Rental
Unit to Occupy for at least One Year
 
 
1.     
In accordance with section
48 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (RTA), in order for the
Landlord to be able to terminate the tenancy he must demonstrate that in good
faith he requires possession of the unit for the purpose of residential
occupation for at least one year. Under section 83 of the RTA, the Board may
refuse to grant an order evicting the tenant unless satisfied, having regard to
all of the circumstances, that it would be unfair to refuse or the Board may order
that enforcement of the eviction be postponed for a period of time.
2.     
The property that houses the
rental unit is a semi-detached back split containing three occupied units. The
rental unit consists of 600 square feet in which there is a tiny kitchen and a
small bathroom.
3.     
The tenant took occupancy of
the rental unit in or about the beginning of December 2016. 
Credibility of the Parties 
4.     
The Landlord said about two
to three months ago he had to sell a residential property he owned at “L”
Street in Brampton because he could not afford it. He said he is renting a room
in that house and that he pays rent by contributing about $500 per month on
account of utilities. 
5.     
Pressed to explain the
circumstances by which he is able to pay a portion of the utilities as his
rent, the Landlord stated that his son owns the Leacrest property. The Landlord
acknowledged his wife lives at “L”, too, as does his brother. 
6.     
The Landlord was shown a rental
listing for “L” dated April 12, 2018 indicating he is the owner of that
property. The Landlord claimed he has a deed showing he transferred it to his
son. Contrary to his earlier testimony, the Landlord stated he gave “L” to his
son as a gift. He said he will instruct his lawyer to register the deed
immediately.
7.     
Presented with a Teranet
real estate search for Peel region dated April 11, 2018, under
cross-examination and contrary to his earlier testimony, the Landlord was
forced to admit that he owns three residential properties he had not declared
in earlier testimony. 
8.     
The Landlord also said he
was not getting along well with his wife but that his plan is for them to live
at the rental unit because it is near his son’s residence. 
9.     
The failure of the Landlord
to be forthcoming about the number of properties he owns is a good indication
he is not being truthful about his financial circumstances. Despite claiming he
prefers to live frugally, I find that the Landlord attempted to create a false
impression of his financial circumstances  in order to try to make his claim that
he would want to live in a 600 square foot unit appear reasonable. Further, it
seems unlikely that both the Landlord and his spouse would live in such a small
living space given the other residential properties at their disposal. Also, the
Landlord did not convince me that he in fact intends to live apart from his
wife at the rental unit
10.  
Accordingly, I am not satisfied
that the Landlord has demonstrated he is acting in good faith in requiring possession of the rental unit for the
purpose of his residential occupation. 
N8 Tenant persistently Paid Rent Late 
 
11.  
The Landlord’s evidence is
that he served the N8 notice of termination on December 29, 2017 by leaving it
where the Tenant’s mail is normally delivered. The N8 notice, which alleges
that the Tenant has been persistently late in paying the rent, has a
termination date of February 28, 2018. 
12.  
The Tenant denies having
been served on that date with the N8 notice. She said it was about two weeks ago
she received the notice. The Tenant submits serving the N8 on December 29, 2017
is highly suspicious because that is the same day the Landlord filed an L2
application at the Board.
13.  
I recognize the Tenant is
not suggesting she was prejudiced by having had the N8 come to her attention at
a later date but, instead, is asserting the affidavit of service is untrue and therefore
is a good indication the Landlord is not accurate and credible, generally.
However, I am not persuaded the affidavit of service indicating the N4 and N8 notices
were left where the Tenant’s mail is normally delivered is untrue as no reason
was suggested as to why the Landlord would have benefited by affecting service
later than December 29, 2017.
14.  
The details listed on the N8
with respect to persistent late payment of rent are somewhat inaccurate or
incomplete when compared to the receipts for cash payments from the Tenant. However,
they are not so incorrect as to not satisfy the requirements of subsection
43(2) of the RTA.
15.  
The receipts show in many
cases rent was not paid on the first of the month, which is when rent is due. A
number of the rent receipts are signed by the Tenant. The Tenant said she did
not pay attention to the dates on them. Since receipts are generally provided
for the benefit of the payor and in this case there being no reason to suggest
otherwise, I am satisfied the contents of the rent receipts are accurate,
including the dates on them indicating when money was paid.
16.  
The receipts for the last
three months are dated February 4, 2018, March 16, 2018 and April 11, 2018. In
the approximately 15 months the Tenant has been renting from the Landlord these
are the most egregious of the late payments. The Tenant said one of those late
payments was due to her having used rent money for gas for her car. Another was
because she was waiting on a tax refund and there was an occasion when she
could not locate the Landlord so she deposited the cash back into her bank
account. 
17.  
The Tenant said frequently
the Landlord did not come to her door on the first day of the month to collect
rent. The Landlord however said he always went to her door on the first day of
the month but there were times when she would not be there or she would ask him
to come back on another date to be paid the rent. 
18.  
The Landlord did not object
in writing to the timing of the payments of rent from the Tenant until an
earlier N8 notice was issued. A previous application for eviction based on that
N8 was dismissed in order CEL-72400-17-RV issued on March 12, 2018.
19.  
The Tenant pays her rent in
cash and objected to the suggestion she pay rent by post-dated cheques or
electronic transfers from her bank account without offering an explanation. The
Landlord stated that the Tenant should have to come to him to pay rent but he did
not offer how that would be accomplished.
20.  
The Landlord acknowledges
that currently there are no arrears of rent owed.
21.  
Having considered the
evidence set out below, I find that the Tenant has persistently paid the rent
late. The reasons offered by the Tenant for the most egregious failures to pay
on time, I find, are not valid. With respect to the shorter delays in payments
of rent, in the absence of any explanation why the Landlord would not attend on
the first of the month when rent is due, I find there is no credible reason why
the payments were not made by the Tenant on time. 
22.  
As stated, under section 83(2)
of the RTA, the Board may refuse to grant an order evicting the tenant unless
satisfied, having regard to all of the circumstances, that it would be unfair
to refuse, or, the Board may order that enforcement of the eviction be
postponed for a period of time. The Landlord’s resort to falsehood coupled with
the fact that the Landlord has been paid all of the rent that was due in the 15
months during which this tenancy has existed, leads me to find that it would
not be unfair to grant relief from eviction, subject to the following
conditions set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a)
and 204(1) of
the RTA. 
It is ordered that:
 
1.      
The Landlord's application
based upon a N12 notice is dismissed.
2.      
The Tenant shall pay the
Landlord the $175.00 application filing fee.
3.      
If the Tenant does not pay
the Landlord the full amount owing on or before April 24, 2018, they will start
to owe interest.  This will be simple interest calculated from April 25, 2018
at 3.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
4.      
The Tenant shall pay the
Landlord the full monthly rent on or before the first day of each month for a
twelve month period commencing May 1, 2018 through to and including April 1,
2019.
5.      
If the Tenant fails to make
any one of the payments ordered in paragraph 4, in full and on time, the
Landlord may apply under section 78 of the RTA,
without notice to the Tenant for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting
the Tenant. The Landlord must make this application no later than 30 days after
the Tenant’s failure to make a payment.
 

 
 
April 17, 2018                                                                   _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      David
Mungovan
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor
Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

