Metadata:
Date:	2018-05-30
File number:	
CET-74655-18; 
 CEL-75019-18
	CET-74655-18; 	 CEL-75019-18
Citation:	CET-74655-18 (Re), 2018 CanLII 88564 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hv7m7>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hv7m7
Content:


File Number: CET-74655-18
CEL-75019-18
CET-74655-18
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
IM and MA (the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that YA (the ‘Landlord’) failed to meet the
Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') or failed to comply with health,
safety, housing or maintenance standards (T6 Application).
 
The Tenants also applied for an order determining that the
Landlord or the Landlord's agent harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered
with them and substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit by the Tenants or by a member of their household (T2 Application).
 
CEL-75019-18
 
The Landlord applied for an order to terminate the
tenancy and evict the Tenants because they have been persistently late in
paying their rent. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the
Tenants remained in the unit after the termination date (L2 Application).
 
On the consent of the parties these
applications were heard together in Mississauga on May 11, 2018.
 
The male Tenant was not present
but the Tenants’ son (AbM) was in attendance. The female Tenant was not present
but the Tenants’ daughter (ArM) was in attendance. 
 
Only the Landlord’s legal
representative, Martin Wu, was present. The Landlord’s father attended but did
not testify.
 
Determinations: 
 
L2 Application:
 
1.     
The rent is due on the first
day of the month in the amount of $2,500.
2.     
Over the past 12 months the
Tenant has paid the rent late on one occasion and paid no rent for the past
four months.  
3.     
I am satisfied therefore
that the Tenants have been persistently late in paying the rent.
4.     
 I have considered all
of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), including the failure of the Landlord to maintain the
rental unit in a good state of repair and fit for habitation as described below
and the reasons for the rent arrears being directly related to substantial
maintenance problems and I find that it would be fair to grant relief from
eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the Act. 
Harassment and Interference with Substantial Enjoyment – T2
Application 
5.     
The T2 Application is
largely the same as the T6 Application, except for the complaint that the
Tenants received too many N12 notices and it was claimed the N8 notice was
served in retaliation for the Tenants’ complaints. 
6.     
Counsel for the Landlord
explained in writing that the N12 notice sent with his letter dated March 7,
2018 had an incorrect termination date on it thus necessitating the need for it
to be rescinded and replaced with a correct N12, which he did in March 2018.
7.     
I am satisfied the Landlord
was not acting in bad faith with respect to the N12 notice served on March 8,
2018 and replaced four days later, and the N8 notice to terminate the tenancy served
on March 12, 2018 for persistently late payment of rent. The Landlord was
entitled to serve the notices to enforce his rights under the Act – the Tenants
having had a history of being late with rent payments. Further, I accept the
explanation of counsel for the Landlord regarding the need for a replacement of
the N12 initially given to the Tenants. Thus, I am not satisfied the Landlord
acted so as to substantially interfere with the Tenants and harass them with
respect to the N8 and N12 notices. 
Maintenance
– T6 Application
 
8.     
ArM said at the time the
Tenants took occupancy of the 2,500 square foot house with their daughter and
two sons on January 23, 2016, they informed the Landlord’s Realtor/Agent, JT, that
there were some maintenance problems with the unit which they later identified
in a follow-up email to JT dated May 15, 2016 regarding clogged eaves troughs,
washroom drains clogged, dishwasher not working, and fireplace not working. The
Tenants alleged JT took pictures of some of the maintenance problems but
nothing was done to fix them. 
9.     
The Landlord had bought the
house that constitutes the rental unit in the spring of 2015. According to an
email sent to the Landlord’s father by LC, a real estate agent who represented
the vendor on the sale of the house to the Landlord, and dated April 19, 2018,
she confirmed that the house needed work when it was bought by the Landlord. 
10.  
LC, who had been looking for
alternative accommodation for the Tenants, volunteered in emails in April and
May 2018 that the Tenants had not demanded the Landlord fix the obvious and
serious maintenance problems because they were afraid they would have to vacate
the rental unit because they did not want to live in a house under construction
and there were no other suitable places for the right rent. She also wrote she
was frustrated with the male Tenant that he would continually put his family’s
health in harm’s way. LC was not called as a witness.
11.  
It would appear LC was not
fully informed regarding Tenants’ complaints to the Landlord for as early as May
15, 2016 as stated above 
12.  
By January 2017, Tenants’
complaints regarding maintenance problems such as the need to repair or remove
the mould, fix the bathroom, the window screens, fireplace, dishwasher, dryer,
main entrance steps that led to dead mice and insects that they had shown JT
and their demand for reimbursement of $300 for a pest control invoice the
Tenants paid, appear to have triggered the issuance of a notice of termination
of the lease and a demand for payment. I am satisfied the Tenants have timely
notified the Landlord by writing and by showing him these many maintenance
problems. 
13.  
On behalf of the Landlord an
invoice was presented dated February 5, 2016 and issued by the handyman he used
regarding work at the rental unit, including a charge of $100 with respect to
mould in the basement and $1,000 for repairing the shower and the faucet in the
master bedroom.  An email written by JT with regard to the work charged by that
invoice indicates that on February 29, 2015 the handyman had finished much the
same work that is outlined in his February 5, 2016 invoice. Nevertheless, the
Tenants disputed the handyman fixed those problems because water splashed
everywhere in the master bathroom when the upper shower or lower water faucet
is turned on and the Tenants complained they have to take a bath in the common
bathroom. Indeed, the handyman is quoted as having told JT the faucet is too
old and the valve inside is loose. He is also reported as having said to
replace the water faucet, some part of the bathroom wall and tiles have to be
opened up. 
14.  
 JT acknowledged in an email
written in June 2017 that the Tenants continually reported damages but despite
evidence to the contrary, she maintained they were remedied by the contractor.  JT
also wrote that due to the many requests for repairs, and those repairs having
been needed because of damage caused by the Tenants, on January 19, 2017 the
Landlord gave the notice to end the tenancy on March 31, 2017. She also wrote
that the Landlord has decided to make major renovations so that the rental unit
will be habitable and therefore he would like the Tenants to move out as soon
as possible.
15.  
JT testified at the hearing
but was generally uncooperative and refused to answer a relevant question put
to her under cross-examination. I did not find her testimony compelling.
16.  
The handyman was called to
testify regarding the work he did at the rental unit but his evidence was vague
and lacked coherence to such an extent that I find it was unreliable. 
17.  
The Tenants presented two
invoices, both dated May 12, 2017 issued by the same numbered company owned by
a relative of theirs for what appears to be the same work but at different
prices. AbM said a relative of theirs did the repairs described in the
invoices, such as fixing the toilet leak and the shower faucet and the sink
drain, but he was unable to satisfactorily explain why there are two invoices
for the same work at different prices. There was no record of payment for the
work. In these circumstances, I am not satisfied the work outlined in those
invoices was performed for a fee.
18.  
I am satisfied the Landlord
has had notice since the time the Tenants took possession of the premises and
shortly thereafter of the serious need to perform repairs or replacements with
respect to the following matters.
 
 
Porch Steps and Eaves Trough
19.  
AbM said the whole left side
of the concrete porch stairs are broken and it is that side of the stairs that
are needed to enter the house because the entry door is to the left of the
centre of the stairs.  After the mailman slipped and fell on the porch in
December 2017, the Tenant contacted the City of Mississauga on January 30, 2018
regarding the poor state of repair of the porch steps and landing and the
inside of the unit. 
20.  
Photographs taken by an
inspector from the City of Mississauga show the three concrete front porch
steps have deteriorated to the point where they allow water to leak into the
cold cellar and room located under the living room of the residential unit. Water
pools on the front concrete landing at the top of the steps due to the eaves
trough allowing water to spill out onto it. The work needed to fix the concrete
porch is estimated by a contractor hired by the Landlord to cost $25,000. 
21.  
As stated, in an email to
the Landlord’s rental agent dated May 15, 2016, ArM informed her about the
eaves troughs needing cleaning, the washroom drain requiring unclogging and the
dishwasher and fireplaces requiring fixing but none of that was ever done.
22.  
There was no evidence
tendered on behalf of the Landlord to contradict the fact that the porch steps,
concrete landing and eaves troughs are in serious need of repair. 
Mould and Water Damage
23.  
There are two bathrooms on
the second floor. The children’s bathroom has problems.  A City of
Mississauga Inspection Report dated January 19, 2018 states that an inspection
revealed, and the photographs attached to the report support, that there are: 
(a)    visible mould on the second-floor bathroom walls,
ceiling and floor; missing or broken tiles and floor boards; and no exhaust
fan;
(b)    mould and water damage in main floor living room
ceiling; cracks and splits in the drywall which AbM said is due to a leak from
the bathtub above;
(c)     mould visible in the cold room and on the
cold room door along with signs of moisture such as the ceiling beams wet and
water leaking in from outside front porch area;
(d)    lots of dead pests on
basement floor of cold room; and
(e)    ceiling damage in laundry room from washroom above
and floorboard appeared wet. AbM said it was due to a leak in the toilet above.
24.  
The City of Mississauga
issued an order dated February 14, 2018 requiring the owner to do the following
by March 30, 2018 :
(A)    provide a report from a qualified professional
indicating any mould/moisture levels and what remedial action is recommended and
where such action is recommended to carry it out in a reasonable time frame;
(B)    repair and (or) replace the damaged sections of
ceiling in the living room and laundry room area; and
(C)    provide a report from a qualified professional
indicating the level of moisture and the point of entry and what remedial
action is required to repair the cold room and basement so that they are free
from moisture as water is evident on their walls, ceilings and floors and where
remedial action is recommended to carry it out in a reasonable time frame.
25.  
On behalf of the Landlord an
estimate dated March 17, 2018 by a numbered company carrying on business as
Kleen Condition was presented. It indicates the need for, and estimated cost
of, mould remediation and associated repairs in the second-floor bathroom
totalling $5,600. With respect to the living room and laundry area, Kleen
Condition estimated that to remove and replace damaged sections of drywall
ceilings of approximately 32 square feet and remediate the mould to exposed
joist and subfloor would cost $3,600.
26.  
Regarding the cold room, the
work required in the interior, including mould remediation of its walls,
ceiling and floor, totals $3,600. The estimate for the required remediation
work for the basement is $2,750. The removal and disposal of mould debris is
estimated to be $1,500. In total the repair and remediation work is estimated
to cost $47,516.50 including HST.
  Water Drains
27.  
The estimate by Kleen
Condition does not appear to address in most instances what remedial action is
required so that the damaged areas are free from water. For instance, there is
no recommendation with respect to the washroom drains in the second floor bathroom
which AbM says are leaking. 
Dishwasher and Fireplace
28.  
In addition, there is no
response from the Landlord regarding the broken dishwasher and fireplace
despite repair of these items having been asked of the Landlord early on in the
tenancy.
Second Floor Bathroom 
29.  
The landlord has been put on
notice that the exhaust vent is ineffective and without that, because the
casement windows in the bathroom cannot be opened in the winter, moisture
builds up. The Landlord has also been timely informed that tiles are broken in
the corner under the window.
30.  
In addition the tile floor
near the tub is broken and boards underneath are exposed. 
Main Floor Bathroom
31.  
AbM said the main floor
bathroom sink leaks and has been the source of constant complaints to the
Landlord. He said the handyman did not repair it and although the Tenants had
someone fix it for them twice, still it leaks.
32.  
In addition, the exhaust fan
is old and ineffective.
Carpeting on Main Floor
33.  
The Tenants are waiving
their complaint with respect to their having to remove the main floor carpet
due to mould as they consider it a form of pay-back for the financial kindness
the Landlord extended to the male Tenant.
Health 
34.  
ArM suffered from gall
stones and had to have her gall bladder removed. The Tenants cat has stopped
eating a full meal. The Tenants blame these health problems on the mould
allowed to build up in the premises. In the absence of further evidence I
cannot find that the existence of mould in the rental unit caused ArM’s gall
stones and damage to the gall bladder or the refusal of a thirteen-year-old cat
living in the unit to eat a full meal. Here, there is insufficient evidence to
suggest that the mould in the rental unit was of a kind and quantity that would
produce gall stones and damage a gall bladder and make a cat ill. Thus, the
burden of establishing that mould in the rental unit caused ArM’s gall stones
and damaged her gall bladder and injured the cat has not been met.
Tenants’ Repairs
35.  
As stated at the hearing the
Tenants presented two invoices each dated May 12, 2017for repairs. AbM said the
person who provided these invoices is a family member. I am not satisfied these
invoices represent work done for the Tenants and paid for by them. Each invoice
shows the same work had been done but at different prices. The person who did
the work did not testify. 
Remedy 
36.  
Even if the
Tenants did not push the Landlord hard to maintain the rental unit out of fear
they would not be able to afford a similarly sized and situated house to rent, I find that the Landlord had adequate notice of
the maintenance problems and is in breach of his maintenance obligations under section 20 of the Act resulting in his substantial interference with the reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit by the Tenants or by a member of their household. 
37.  
The Tenants are asking for rent
abatement equal to 66.00 % of the monthly rent of $2,500 for one year which
totals $19,800. The lack of proper attention for so long on the part of the
Landlord to serious maintenance problems that the Tenants have been obliged to
endure and the reliance on clearly inadequate attempts at repairs with respect to
some of those problems, in the circumstances, I find, warrant a substantial
rent rebate equal to 30% of the rent for 12 months which totals $9,000.00.
It is ordered that:
 
L2
Application
 
 
1.     
The Tenants shall pay the
Landlord the full monthly rent on or before the first day of each month for a
twelve month period commencing July 1, 2018 through to and including June 30,
2019.
2.     
If the Tenants fail to make
any one of the payments pursuant to paragraph 1 of this order, in full and on
time, the Landlord may apply under section 78 of the Act, without notice to the
Tenant, for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenants. The
Landlord must make this application no later than 30 days after the Tenant’s
failure to make a payment.
3.     
The Tenants also owe the
Landlord $190.00 for the cost of filing this application less the cost of the
filing fee incurred by the Tenants of $50.00 resulting in net filing fee costs
of $140.00 which shall be offset against the amount the Landlord owes the
Tenants for the abatement of rent as set out below.
T2/T6 Application 
4.     
The Landlord shall pay the Tenants a total sum of $9,000.00 which
represents the amount granted in respect of the Landlord’s serious failure to
maintain the rental unit in a good state of repair and fit for habitation minus
the net costs of $140, totalling $8,860.00.
5.     
On or before September 30,
2018, the Landlord shall: 
(1) 
repair or replace the porch
steps and eaves troughs; 
(2) 
conduct mould remediation
and associated repairs and removal and disposal of mould debris as ordered by The
City of Mississauga on February 14, 2018 and according to the recommendations
by Kleen Condition in its report dated March 17, 2018;
(3) 
repair or replace the
washroom drains in the second floor bathroom;
(4) 
repair or replace the
dishwasher;
(5) 
repair or replace the
fireplace;
(6) 
repair or replace the
exhaust vent in the second floor bathroom;
(7) 
repair or replace the tile
floor and boards near the tub;
(8) 
repair or replace the main
floor bathroom sink tap so that there is no water leak; and
(9) 
repair or replace the main
floor bathroom exhaust fan.
6.     
If the Landlord does not do
the repairs or replacements by September 30, 2018, the Tenants are authorized
to arrange for the repairs or replacements to be done and may recover the cost
of the repairs or replacements by deducting the amount from the rent paid in
the months after each of the repairs or replacements are done without waiting
until all repairs and replacements are completed until there is no longer any
money owing. The Tenants must first submit invoices/receipts to the Landlord
which detail the repair costs.
7.     
The Landlord shall pay the
Tenants the full amount owing by June 30, 2018. 
8.     
If the Landlord does not pay
the Tenants the full amount owing by June 30, 2018 the Landlord will owe
interest. This will be simple interest calculated from June 30, 2018 at 3.00%
annually on the outstanding balance.
9.     
If the Landlord does not pay
the Tenants the full amount owing by June 30, 2018, the Tenants may recover
this amount by deducting it from the rent for June 2018 and thereafter until
the full amount is paid.
10.  
The Tenants have the right,
at any time, to collect the full amount owing or any balance outstanding under
this order.

 
 
May 30, 2018                                                                    _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      David
Mungovan
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor
Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

