Metadata:
Date:	2018-06-26
File number:	
SWL-15775-18
	SWL-15775-18
Citation:	SWL-15775-18 (Re), 2018 CanLII 88638 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hv7ps>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hv7ps
Content:


Order
under Section 69
Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File
Number: SWL-15775-18
 
WC
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict DB
(the 'Tenant') because the Tenant did not pay the rent that the Tenant owes. (L1)
 
The Landlord also applied for an order to
terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenant because the Tenant or another
occupant of the rental unit has committed an illegal act or has carried out, or
permitted someone to carry out an illegal trade, business or occupation in the
rental unit or the residential complex involving the production of an illegal
drug, the trafficking in an illegal drug or the possession of an illegal drug
for the purposes of trafficking. (L2)
 
This application was heard in [CITY] on June
20, 2018.
 
CP, the Landlord’s
Legal Representative, attended the hearing along with Landlord's witnesses, DK and
Constable PM.
 
The Tenant attended the
hearing along with Tenant’s Legal Representative, AC and CC and JF.
 
Determinations:
Application to Evict
a Tenant for Non-payment of Rent and to Collect the Rent the Tenant Owes (L1)
 
1.     
The Tenant has not paid the
total rent the Tenant was required to pay for the period from March 1, 2013 to
June 30, 2018.  Because of the arrears, the Landlord served a Notice of
Termination effective April 10, 2018.
 
2.      The Tenant is in possession of the rental unit. 
 
3.      The monthly rent is $244.00.
 
4.      The Landlord is not holding a last month's rent deposit. 
 
5.      The Tenant has paid $780.00 since the application was filed. 
Application to Terminate a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant (L2)
6.     
DK testified that in his
role as a property manager for the Landlord he has received numerous complaints
from neighbors of the Tenant.  The complaints state there is constant traffic
in and out of the Tenant’s unit and they frequently find needles and other drug
paraphernalia in the grass outside the Tenant’s unit.  DK testified that he
personally has found drug paraphernalia in the grass outside the Tenant’s unit
and that the crew who cut the grass have found needles, pipes and rolling
papers there. KD testified that the Tenant’s unit is situated in a complex of
geared-to-income rental units which are occupied by many families with children
and that many of the complaints he receives from the Tenant’s neighbors relate
to their fears of having their children exposed to drug trafficking.
 
7.     
PM testified that he drafted
the affidavit by which a search warrant was issued and carried out on March 21,
2018.  He said that he was in charge of the raid during which three adults,
including the Tenant, were found in the premises and charged with possession of
illegal drugs for the purpose of trafficking.  During the raid 12.4 grams of a
substance he believed to be crystal methamphetamine were found along with
digital scales, packaging materials and correspondence between the Tenant and
one of the other adults charged.  He said that the drugs were found in plain
view in a closed container in an upper bedroom apparently used as an office.  
 
8.     
The Tenant testified that
she has been ill lately with a blood infection, she has lost several family
members in the last couple of years and that if she has to move out she would
like until August 31, 2018, to do so.  
 
9.     
The Tenant’s Legal
Representative argued that the Landlord’s Legal Representative failed to prove
on a balance of probabilities that the Tenant had knowledge of the drugs or
that “GD”, one of the other person’s charged was an occupant of the premises
and that the police officer failed to produce a certificate of analysis.
 
10.   Based on the combined evidence of DK about the
number of neighbor complaints and the drug paraphernalia, as well as the
testimony of the PM,  I find that based on a balance of probabilities, the
Tenant or another occupant of the rental unit was in possession of illegal
drugs for the purpose of trafficking.  The Landlord’s evidence was sufficient
on its own to prove the case on a balance of probabilities.  The Tenant may
have been able to disprove the Landlord’s case, if the Tenant had provided any
evidence.  Although the Tenant was present and did testify, she did not address
the merits of the application.  She merely asked for a delay.  She did not deny
any of the allegations.  I note also that in the letter from the Tenant’s
criminal lawyer, filed by the Tenant’s Legal Representative, GD, one of the
other person’s charged is described as the Tenant’s spouse.  In asking for time
to move, the Tenant said that she had no one to assist her because GD is
incarcerated and likely to be deported.  She did not say that he had not been
occupying the premises with her.  He is her spouse, was found in the premises
during the raid, and she did not deny that he was occupying the premises.  I am
satisfied on a balance of probabilities that he was an occupant.  Although the
police officer did not produce a certificate of analysis to prove the substance
found in the plastic container was crystal methamphetamine, based on scales and
packaging materials as well as the evidence of DK, I am satisfied on a balance
of probabilities that the Tenant or an occupant was in possession of an illegal
drug for the purpose of trafficking. 
 
11.   Based on the uncontradicted evidence of the
Landlord, I am satisfied on a balance of probabilities that the Tenant or an
occupant of the Tenant's rental unit has committed an illegal act involving the
production of an illegal drug or trafficking in an illegal drug or possession
of an illegal drug for the purposes of trafficking in the rental unit or
residential complex.
 
12.   I have considered all of the disclosed
circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to postpone the
eviction until July 15, 2018, pursuant to subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act.  The
Tenant testified about health issues which will impair her ability to move and,
she will have to do so without the assistance of her spouse.  Since both other
parties who were charged are incarcerated, I am satisfied that the danger to
the neighborhood is not so great that a brief delay until July 15, 2018, would
be unfair.  However, I am also satisfied that any significant delay longer than
that would be unfair to the Landlord because the Landlord has a legal
obligation to ensure that the complex is safe for the other residents. 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     
The tenancy between the
Landlord and the Tenant is terminated.  The Tenant must move out of the rental
unit on or before July 15, 2018.
 
2.     
The Tenant shall pay to the
Landlord $968.76*, which represents the amount of rent owing and compensation
up to June 26, 2018.
 
3.     
The Tenant shall also pay to
the Landlord $8.02 per day for compensation for the use of the unit starting
June 27, 2018 to the date the Tenant moves out of the unit.
 
4.     
The Tenant shall also pay to
the Landlord $190.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
5.     
If the Tenant does not pay
the Landlord the full amount owing* on or before July 7, 2018, the Tenant will
start to owe interest.  This will be simple interest calculated from July 8,
2018 at 3.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
6.     
If the unit is not vacated
on or before July 15, 2018, then starting July 16, 2018, the Landlord may file
this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may
be enforced.
 
7.     
Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of
the unit to the Landlord, on or after July 16, 2018.
June 26, 2018                                                                  _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Carol
McDermott
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue,
Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
If you have any
questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with
section 81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires
on January 16, 2019 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where
the rental unit is located.
*           Refer to
section A on the attached Summary of Calculations.

