Metadata:
Date:	2020-07-28
File number:	
TEL-05886-19
	TEL-05886-19
Citation:	TEL-05886-19 (Re), 2020 CanLII 61348 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/j9dth>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/j9dth
Content:


Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-05886-19
 










 
 

 (MD)
and (DD) (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and
evict (AG) (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully or
negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The Landlords has also applied
for an order requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlords for the damage;
and because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone the
Tenant permitted in the residential complex has substantially interfered with
the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the
Landlords or another tenant. The Landlords also claimed compensation for each
day the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This
application was heard in Whitby on January 20, 2020
 
The Landlords, the Landlord’s representative, D.G. and the Tenant
attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.      At
the start of the hearing the Landlords requested permission to withdraw the Landlords’
claim for damage in the N5 notice of termination (the N5) as through clerical
error they did not include particulars of this claim in the N5. I granted this
request without considering its merits.
2.      It
is undisputed that: the tenancy started on July 15, 2017; the residential
complex is a house consisting of the Tenant’s basement apartment and a residential
rental unit on the main floor and; the Tenant’s four children live with her.
3.      The
termination date in the N5 is October 31, 2019. 
4.      The
certificate of service for the N5 sets out that it was served on October 9,
2019 by being placed in the Tenant’s mailbox.
Marijuana smell
5.      One
of the remaining claims in the N5 is that the Tenant smokes marijuana both in
her unit and on the grounds of the complex.
6.      The
Tenant did not challenge MD’s testimony that the Landlords entered the unit on
October 13, 2019, at which time they detected the odor of marijuana therein. As
such, I determined that the Tenant did not void the N5 by not smoking at the
complex for the entire seven-day period after being served with the N5.
7.      MD
produced a copy of the tenancy agreement signed by the parties, directing my
attention to paragraph 22 of the Rules and Regulations section, which provides:
“smoking is not permitted within the premises.”
8.      MD
produced hard copies of text messages from Clifford, the one-time upstairs
tenant complaining about the smell of marijuana in the complex. The texts were
sent on the dates or occurrence, including March 21, 2018, March 23, 208, March
24, 201, April 10, 2019, April 14, 2019 and May 14, 2019.
9.      MD
testified that Erica, who was the upstairs tenant before Clifford, and Lisa,
who was the upstairs tenant after Clifford, both smelled marijuana coming from
the Tenant’s unit during their respective tenancies.
10.   MD
testified that on an unspecified date he observed the Tenant’s boyfriend
smoking marijuana in the master bedroom of the Tenant’s unit. The Tenant baldly
refuted this testimony. However, as this claim was not directly set out in the
pleadings, either in relation to a date of occurrence or specifically
identifying the boyfriend as the perpetrator, I dismissed it m for not proving adequate
notice to the Tenant.
11.   MD
testified that while the Landlords are opposed to the Tenant smoking in her
unit or within the house, they are agreeable, at large, with her smoking on the
grounds of the complex, as long as the smell does not infiltrate the house so
as to interfere with the other tenants.
12.   The
Tenant testified that she smokes marijuana on the grounds of the complex, only,
both in the front and back yards, and never inside of the house. The Tenant
theorized that it is likely that the other tenants have merely detected the
smoke residue that travels on her person after she smokes outside.
13.   I
am mindful that as the moving party the Landlords bears the burden of proving
the merits of their claims on a balance of probabilities (i.e., at least 51% of
the way). Besides the above instance where MD claims to have seen the Tenant’s
boy friend smoking, none of the complaints allege that the Tenant or her guests
were observed in the act of smoking. Instead, the smell of marijuana, only, was
described. Moreover, the Tenant was consistent in her portrayal of only smoking
outside, which did not waiver during cross-examination. As such, I preferred
her testimony to the surmisal by the Landlords that the she has been smoking in
her unit. 
14.   Though
the complaints did not, in general, detail the effect of the smoke smell on the
other tenants, the sheer frequency and consistency over time of Clifford’s
complaints suggests a level of agitation on his part that supports an inference
that his reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex had been interfered
with.
Waste storage 
15.   MD
testified that the Tenant stores her garbage and recycling material in the
house instead of outside in the shed that the Landlords have provided for this
purpose. This has produced a rodent infestation in the complex, as rats and
mice are drawn to the waste as a food source. Moreover, the Landlords’
extermination efforts are foiled because the rodents by-pass the poison-bated
traps set by the Landlords in favour of the waste. In response to a
clarification question from me the Landlords testified that they do not have
professional qualifications to assess the causes of rodent infestation and they
did not rely on professional opinion in inferring a relationship between the presence
of the waste and the infestation.
16.   The
Tenant testified in agreement that the Landlords have provided a shed for waste
storage. However, the shed’s lid is broken, allowing raccoons to enter and rip
open the garbage bags therein, spreading their contents across the grounds.  As
such, the Tenant stores her garbage and recycling material in the house, as she
is tired of witnessing the mess and cleaning up after these incidents.
17.   In
response, the Landlords testified that the lid to the shed is not broken.
18.   The
Landlords would have me accept that the Tenant’s waste storage practice has
caused infestation. However, there was insufficient evidence to support this
conclusion. Any number of unidentified factors could have created or materially
contributed this circumstance, the indoor storage of waste notwithstanding. The
Landlords’ simple belief in their theory is not enough to show a causal
connection.  
19.   The
Tenant is neither obligated to clean up after the raccoons, nor to endure the
results of their handwork. However, while her concerns with the waste storage
process established by the Landlords may be addressed through an application
she might file with the Board, they do not justify her self-help. As such, I
determined that the Tenant has substantially interfered with the
Landlords’ interest in the Tenant using the established waste storage process.
Unpaid utilities 
20.   MD directed
my attention to section 11 of the tenancy agreement, which provides in part:
“Utilities: The Tenant agrees to pay 35% of all costs for the supply of
utilities to the Premises including electricity, gas, hot water heater, water”.
21.   It is
undisputed that, by agreement between the parties and the upstairs tenant, the
utilities are in the name of the upstairs tenant and are paid directly by that
person to the utility providers. The Tenant then reimburses 35% of the expense
(though the agreement does not establish a deadline for reimbursement). By
convention, when the Tenant’s payment is delinquent, the Landlords pay her
share to the upstairs tenant and are later reimbursed by the Tenant.
22.   Without
producing invoices, receipts or other corroboration from the providers, the
Landlords say that the Tenant is currently $166.00 in utility arrears.
23.   The Tenant
testified that she is $110.45 in arrears, only, and that these arrears arise from
July’s utility usage.
24.   It
is clear that the Landlords are responsible for providing utility services to
the Tenant, using this scheme, perhaps for the sake of administrative
convenience, to fulfill this obligation.  
25.   While
the Landlords’ testimony has evidentially value, and must be accorded
appropriate weight, all things being equal, the Board expects that parties will
provide their “best” evidence to support their claims. Here the Landlords’ best
evidence of the amount of unpaid utility charges might consist of charge and payment
records from the providers themselves. The Landlords’ lack of explanation for
not producing such usually expected records is fatal to their credibility on
this issue, especially given the Tenant’s competing claim as to what she owes.
As such, I determined that the Tenant is in arrears for July’s combined utilities,
only, and that the amount of this arrears is $110.45. Given her uncontested
testimony that her practice is to reimburse the upstairs tenant within two
weeks of being presented with the related invoices, her extensive and ongoing
delay in making this payment substantially interferes with
the Landlords' implicit interest in having utilities paid for in a timely way.
26.   It
is undisputed that in accordance with the application: the Landlords collected
a rent deposit of $1,500.00 from the Tenant and this deposit is still being
held by the Landlords and; and interest on the rent deposit is owing to the
Tenant for the period from October 7, 2017 to October 31, 2019
27.   I
have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with
subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and
find that it would not be unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant to
subsection 83(1) of the Act. 
28.   The
Tenant requested that the tenancy not end, which I infer means that she was
opposed to termination. In response to a question from me the Tenant requested
that termination, if ordered, be delayed by six months.
29.   By
contrast, the Landlords requested that the tenancy end, suggesting, without
elaboration, that delayed termination to February 29, 2020 would be
appropriate.
30.   I
did not canvass with the parties possible conditions of relief or the Tenant’s willingness
to comply with probationary terms, if imposed. However, on further deliberation
after the hearing, I determined that conditional termination based on the below
terms is appropriate, given the significant length of this tenancy, the housing
needs of the Tenant’s children and my assessment that the proven conduct was
not at the more serious end of the substantial interference scale.
31.   For
unknown reasons the Landlords did not pursue their claim in the application for
damage under section 34 of the Residential Tenancies Act, (the Act), which
could have been advanced irrespective of the withdrawal of the damage claim in
the N5. As such, I dismissed this claim without considering its merits.
It is ordered that:
 
1.      Starting
August 8, 2020 and continuing to August 7, 2021, when either the Tenant, the occupants
of the unit or the Tenant’s guest consume marijuana on or off the grounds of
the residential complex, the Tenant shall ensure that the smell of marijuana
smoke does not infiltrate the house to an extent that substantially
interferes with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest
of the Landlords or another tenant.
2.      Starting
August 8, 2020 and continuing to August 7, 2021, the Tenant shall only store
her garbage and recycling material in the shed or other outdoor facility
designated by the Landlords for this purpose.
3.      On
or before August 31, 2020 the Tenant shall reimburse either the Landlords or
the other tenant, as the case may be, the balance of the unpaid utilities from
July 2019 in the amount of $110.45.
4.     
If the Tenant fails to comply with any of paragraphs 1 to 3, the
Landlord may apply under section 78 of the Act for an order terminating the
tenancy and evicting the Tenant. The Landlord must make the application within
30 days of the Tenant’s breach.
5.      The
Tenant shall also pay to the Landlords $175.00 for the cost of filing the
application.
6.      If
the Tenant does not pay the Landlords the full amount owing on or before August
8, 2020, the Tenant will start to owe interest.  This will be simple interest
calculated from August 9, 2020 at 3.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
July 28, 2020                                                                    
Date Issued                                                                      Shelby
Whittick
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or
toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

