Metadata:
Date:	2017-07-19
File number:	
TEL-79447-17-RV
	TEL-79447-17-RV
Citation:	TEL-79447-17-RV (Re), 2017 CanLII 60847 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/h5z1z>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/h5z1z
Content:


Order
under Section 21.2 of the 
Statutory Powers Procedure Act 
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-79447-17-RV
 
 
 
Review Order
 
B.G., Je.
G., Jo. G. and L. G. (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate the
tenancy and evict D.F. and S.R. (the 'Tenants') because the Tenants did not pay
the rent that the Tenants owe; and because they, another occupant of the rental
unit or someone they permitted in the residential complex have substantially
interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest
of the Landlords or another tenant. 
 
This
application was resolved by order TEL-79447-17 issued on May 9, 2017.
 
On June 5,
2017, the Tenants requested a review of the order.
 
The
request was heard in Whitby on June 30, 2017 and July 17, 2017.
 
The
first and third named Landlords above and the Tenants attended the hearing held
on June 30, 2017. Both Landlords present testified as did the first-named
Tenant above. The Tenants also called as a witness: A.P. (the ‘Tenants’
Friend’). 
 
But
only the Landlords attended the hearing held on July 17, 2017. At the July 17,
2017 hearing the Landlords called as witnesses: Z.C. (the ‘Municipal Law
Enforcement Officer’); and S.L. (the ‘Next Door Neighbour’). The Landlords were
represented throughout by S.B..
 
 
Determinations:
THE
REQUEST FOR REVIEW
1.      The
Tenants’ request for review alleges they were not reasonably able to participate
in the original hearing before the Board. In the end result it was unnecessary
to hear evidence and submissions about why the Tenants did not attend. As I
stated at the hearing of June 30, 2017, the Tenants’ request for review must be
granted because there is a serious error in the order with respect to the
lawful monthly rent. 
2.      Although
not explicitly addressed in the Board’s order it implicitly accepts the
assertions contained in the Landlord’s notice of termination for non-payment of
rent and the application that the lawful monthly rent is $1,095.00. That is in
fact not the lawful monthly rent. I say this for the following reasons.
3.      The
written tenancy agreement between the parties was before the Member at the
original hearing. It contains the following clauses:
The rent shall be $1,095.00
(Base Rent) + $195.00 (Utilities) = $1,290.00 per month, and the full
Rent shall be payable in advance on the first day of each month…
The Landlord acknowledges
receipt from the Tenants… the sum of $1,290.00 for the last
month’s rent of the tenancy.
The set Utility rate of
$195.00 is based on a projected average rate of consumption and billed to the
tenant on a monthly equal billing basis. If the annual average is exceeded the
tenant agrees to pay the difference to compensate the Landlord for the
increased cost of consumption.
[Emphasis in original.]
4.      As
can be seen from the above clauses, the tenancy agreement explicitly states the
monthly rent is $1,290.00 and not $1,095.00 as set out in the notice and
application. 
5.      More
importantly, subsection 2(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') says in part:
“rent” includes the
amount of any consideration paid or given or required to be paid or given
by or on behalf of a tenant to a landlord or the landlord’s agent for the
right to occupy a rental unit and for any services and facilities and any
privilege, accommodation or thing that the landlord provides for the tenant in
respect of the occupancy of the rental unit, whether or not a separate charge
is made for services and facilities or for the privilege, accommodation or
thing, but “rent” does not include,
    (a)       an amount
paid by a tenant to a landlord to reimburse the landlord for property taxes
paid by the landlord with respect to a mobile home or a land lease home owned
by a tenant, or
    (b)       an amount
that a landlord charges a tenant of a rental unit in a care home for care
services or meals; 
[Emphasis added.]
6.      This
definition explicitly states that “rent” includes everything the Landlords
charge for including any services or things that the Landlords provide whether
there is a separately set out charge for it or not. The Tenants here were not
required to have their own account with the utilities providers; rather the
Landlords paid for and arranged for utilities. They provided utilities to the
Tenants. 
7.      Further,
the Landlords built into the monthly rent an amount reflective of the average
monthly cost of utilities. This was a flat amount payable every month
regardless of the actual cost. In this fashion the monthly amount payable was
the same every month. If there was a shortfall between the amount the Landlords
were actually billed and the amount the Tenants were paying monthly to the Landlords
then the tenancy agreement stipulates a  yearly accounting will be done
potentially resulting in a single payment to the Landlords for utilities. 
8.      Because
of the way rent decreases and increases are strictly regulated by the Act,
“rent” cannot include an amount for utilities that fluctuates up and down on a
monthly basis. 
9.      What
this means is that the entire monthly amount charged in the tenancy agreement
of $1,290.00 meets the definition of “rent” under the Act. The once a year
payment that may or may not be payable depending on consumption is variable and
not payable with the other monthly charges so it is not rent under the Act. 
10.   This
interpretation is consistent with Board practice which is reflected in
Interpretation Guideline 11 Eviction for Failure to Pay Rent. It says in part:
When a
landlord and tenant are entering into a tenancy agreement, they may agree that
utilities will be included in the rent. In this case, the landlord is
responsible for paying all utility bills and the rent would remain unchanged
despite any fluctuations in these costs.
 
Alternatively, the
landlord and tenant may agree that utilities will not be included in the rent,
and that the tenant will be responsible for paying all utility costs directly
to the utility company. In this case it is clear that the payment of the
utility costs is not rent, and even if the landlord pays the bill because the
tenant fails to, they would not be able to claim the amount as rent arrears.
11.   Given
all of the above, I am satisfied that the order contains a serious material
error with respect to the lawful monthly rent and the amount the Tenants owe
the Landlords for rent. On that basis the review must be granted.
THE
APPLICATION FOR NON-PAYMENT OF RENT
12.   Because
the Landlords’ notice of termination indicates the monthly rent is only
$1,095.00, the notice fails to accurately set out the rent arrears. It is a
mandatory requirement of s. 59 of the Act that a notice like this accurately
set out the amount of rent arrears. As the notice does not comply with section
59, the Board does not have the jurisdiction to terminate the tenancy and evict
the Tenants for non-payment of rent. 
13.   In
response to my question the Landlords indicated they wished to proceed with this
part of the application to obtain an order for rent arrears only without
eviction. This is permitted by s. 87 of the Act. 
14.   The
rent arrears owing up to June 30, 2017 total $7,840.00. Because the order below
terminates the tenancy on other grounds, the Landlords are also entitled to an
order for daily compensation of $42.41 for the period July 1, 2017 to the date
vacant possession is returned to the Landlords. 
15.   The
Landlords collected rent deposits from the Tenants totalling $1,410.00. This
amount shall be applied to the rent due for the last month of the tenancy
pursuant to s. 106(10) and the excess shall be deducted from the rent arrears
due. 
16.   Interest
on the rent deposit is owing to the Tenants for the period from June 21, 2016
to April 23, 2017 in the amount of $17.79. This amount shall also be offset
against the rent arrears owing. 
17.   The
Landlords incurred costs of $190.00 for filing the application and are entitled
to reimbursement of those costs.
18.   An
order shall issue for the balance owing.
THE
TENANTS’ SECTION 82 CLAIMS
19.   At
the hearing held on June 30, 2017, the Tenants indicated they wished to make
claims under s. 82 of the Act with respect to sewage in the basement, a door
being kicked in, and garbage. 
20.   The
hearing of the evidence was not complete on June 30, 2017, so the hearing had
to be adjourned. As the Tenants failed to attend the hearing of July 17, 2017,
the Tenants’ section 82 claims are dismissed as abandoned.
21.   I
would note at this point that at the end of the hearing on June 30, 2017 there
was a discussion concerning what dates were available for the return of the
application as well as the proposed delayed start time of 1:30 p.m. 
22.   The
Tenants requested August 11, 2017 as the return date. The Landlords wanted the
earlier offered available date of July 17, 2017. I told the Tenants that if
they paid one month’s rent into the Board in trust on or before July 7, 2017
then the return date would be August 11, 2017; if they did not the return date
would be July 17, 2017. On July 5, 2017 the Board issued order
TEL-79447-17-RV-IN2 confirming that oral direction. 
23.   That
interim order also pointed out to the Tenants that failure to pay into the
Board as ordered might result in the Board refusing to consider the Tenants’
evidence and submissions pursuant to s. 195(4) of the Act. Given all of the
circumstances here, if the Tenants had attended the hearing on July 17, 2017, I
would have exercised my discretion and refused to consider their evidence and
submissions with respect to the section 82 claims.
THE
LANDLORDS’ APPLICATION FOR SUBSTANTIAL INTERFERENCE
24.   The
Landlords’ application for substantial interference with reasonable enjoyment
is based on a notice of termination that contains a one page list of dates when
the other tenant living at the back of the residential complex complained to
the Landlords about noise from the Tenants’ unit. The noise was allegedly from
multiple sources: yelling, screaming, swearing, doors banging and the Tenants’
dogs barking. It is essentially a log of her complaints.
25.   At
the original hearing before the Board, the Tenants were not present so the
hearing was uncontested. The Landlords’ evidence with respect to the
allegations in the notice consisted of text messages from the other tenant
containing her complaints. As at the review hearing, they elected not to
summons the complaining tenant as a witness. 
26.   These
texts are hearsay but admissible pursuant to s. 15 of the Statutory Powers
Procedure Act, R.S.O. 1990, c. S.22. Hearsay is not only admissible but it
can be sufficient to meet the burden of proof. However, the general rule of
evidence is that oral testimony given under oath and subject to cross
examination is to be given more weight than hearsay evidence. The only exception
to that rule is where the oral testimony is simply not credible and the hearsay
evidence is more reliable. 
27.   So
the issue for the Board with respect to this part of the application is whether
or not the first-named Tenant’s testimony and that of the Tenants’ witness
denying making noise as set out in the notice of termination is credible or
not. Having considered their testimony I am satisfied that it is not.
28.   I
say this because almost all of the documentary and photographic evidence
contradicts that of the Tenant and the Tenants’ Friend. 
29.   For
example, the Tenants’ Friend says she has been attending the unit daily to take
the dogs out for walks for about a month as the second named Tenant has been
staying with her. She was shown photographs of the unit taken during this time
period that show a large number of piles of dog faeces and claimed that she
cleaned up when she was there every day; and the amount of faeces in the
photographs was consistent with her cleaning up and walking the dogs once
daily. That testimony is clearly not consistent with the photographs. The
amount of faeces on display in just one area of the unit shows at least ten
piles of faeces. Two dogs do not create ten piles of faeces in 24 hours. 
30.   The
first-named Tenant above claims he has friends come to the unit twice a day
when he is not there to check the dogs and the unit. The photographs indicate
that is clearly not true.
31.   The
Tenants’ evidence is also contradicted by the Municipal Law Enforcement
Officer. He was in the rental unit in February because the Tenants complained
about a backed up drain in the basement. He says the dogs were barking their
heads off at that time and in fact have been loudly barking every time he has
been at the property. The first-named Landlord says the same thing.
32.   The
Municipal Law Enforcement Officer and the first-named Landlord above both testified
about the Tenants evading their efforts to contact them. This testimony is
amply supported by the texts and emails filed. The Tenant who testified denied
avoiding contact with the Landlords and actually claimed at one point he could
not get hold of the Landlords. When confronted with the Municipal Law
Enforcement Officer’s email summarising his efforts to contact the Tenants and
follow up with them the Tenant described it as completely untrue and
ridiculous. 
33.   In
other words the Tenants’ evidence is contradicted by all of the other evidence
before the Board. As a result, I find that the Tenants’ denial with respect to
the amount of noise and the dates and times excessive noise was heard from the
rental unit is not credible. The evidence of the Tenants’ Friend is also not
credible with respect to the behaviour of the Tenants’ dogs. 
34.   I
would also observe that the Tenants’ behaviour in general is somewhat erratic which
tends to support the assertion their evidence is not credible. For example, the
Tenant who testified had to be repeatedly reminded during his evidence as to
what he just said. The Tenant who did not testify literally could not control
herself and continued to interrupt the proceeding. In order to control the
disruption I had to order her to sit at the back of the room. The Municipal Law
Enforcement Officer also noted that on one occasion he met them on the street
and they denied being the tenants of the unit and ran away from him.
35.   Both
the Municipal Law Enforcement Officer and the Next Door Neighbour gave similar
fact evidence about the noise disruptions caused by the Tenants’ dogs for a
different period then that set out I the notice of termination. Although not
relevant to the specific dates set out in the notice, their evidence does
support the assertion that the Tenants’ dogs bark non-stop and loudly at all
hours of the day and night and it is extremely disruptive for everyone around
them.
36.   As
a result of all of the above, I am satisfied the evidence is sufficient to
prove the allegations set out in the notice of termination on the balance of
probabilities.
37.   Because
of the noise disruptions caused by the Tenants and their dogs the other tenant
in the residential complex started staying elsewhere so her son could sleep
through the night. She also negotiated a rent decrease, and when the noise did
not stop she vacated the rental unit. The Landlords helped her find a new unit
and move. 
38.   Given
all of the above I am satisfied that the Tenants’ excessive noise substantially
interfered with the other tenant’s reasonable enjoyment and a lawful interest
of the Landlords’. 
RELIEF FROM EVICTION
39.   I
have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with
subsection 83(2) of the Act, and find that it would be unfair to grant relief
from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the Act. 
40.   The
Tenants have not been living in the rental unit on a daily or regular basis for
some time. They seem to stay with friends elsewhere routinely despite the fact
there are young children in this family. So the Tenants’ do not seem to need
relief. Further, this situation has been on-going for some time and any further
delay would be most unfair to the Landlords. In addition, in light of the state
of the unit and given all of the circumstances here, the Sheriff will be
directed to expedite enforcement of the eviction. 
41.   This
order contains all of the reasons for the decision within it. No further
reasons shall be issued.
It is
ordered that:
1.      Order
TEL-79447-17 issued on May 9, 2017 is cancelled and replaced by the following: 
2.      The
tenancy between the Landlords and the Tenants is terminated effective April 23,
2017. The Tenants must move out of the rental unit on or before July 31, 2017.
3.      The
Tenants shall pay to the Landlords $7,218.02, which represents the amount of
rent owing and compensation up to July 19, 2017, less the rent deposit and
interest the Landlords owe on the rent deposit. 
4.      The
Tenants shall also pay to the Landlords $42.41 per day for compensation for the
use of the unit starting July 20, 2017 to the date they move out of the unit. 
5.      The
Tenants shall also pay to the Landlords $190.00 for the cost of filing the
application.
6.      If
the Tenants do not pay the Landlords the full amount owing on or before July
31, 2017, they will start to owe interest.  This will be simple interest
calculated from August 1, 2017 at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
7.      If
the unit is not vacated on or before July 31, 2017, then starting August 1,
2017, the Landlords may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office
(Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced.
8.      Upon
receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to
give vacant possession of the unit to the Landlords on or after August 1, 2017.
The Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is requested to expedite the enforcement
of this order.
 
July
19, 2017                                                                    _______________________
Date
Issued                                                                      Ruth
Carey
                                                                                                                           Vice
Chair, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto
East-RO
2275
Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto
ON M1P3E7
 
If
you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at
1-888-332-3234.
 
In
accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the
eviction expires on February 1, 2018 if the order has not been filed on or
before this date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has
territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.

