Metadata:
Date:	2018-04-06
File number:	
TEL-88344-18-RV
	TEL-88344-18-RV
Citation:	TEL-88344-18-RV (Re), 2018 CanLII 111747 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hw7x5>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hw7x5
Content:


Order under Section 21.2 of the 
Statutory Powers Procedure Act 
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-88344-18-RV
 










 



 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 



 

Review Order
 
P.J.
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict M.H.
and K.H. (the 'Tenants') because the Tenants did not pay the rent that the
Tenants owe.
 
This
application was resolved by order TEL-88344-18 issued on March 12, 2018.
 
On
March 21, 2018, the Tenants requested a review of the order.
 
The
request was heard in Toronto on April 5, 2018.
At the hearing
the Tenants applied pursuant to section 82 of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 (the ‘Act’) for an order determining that the Landlord or the
Landlord's superintendent or the Landlord's agent substantially interfered with
the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the
Tenant or by a member of the Tenant's household; withheld or deliberately
interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital service that the
Landlord is obligated to supply under the tenancy agreement; and failed to meet the Landlord's
maintenance obligations under the Act or failed to comply with health, safety,
housing or maintenance standards.
The Landlord and the first-named Tenant attended the hearing.  The
Landlord was represented by P.M..  R.C. (the ‘Property Manager’) attended the
hearing as a witness for the Landlord.
 
 
 
 
 
Determinations:
 
Request
for Review
1.     The
first-named Tenant testified that she has brain cancer and on the date of the
hearing she was in hospital undergoing treatment.  There was also a note in the
file from the Board staff stating the Tenant had called the Board to state she
is in hospital and unable to attend the hearing scheduled for the next day. 
The first-named Tenant also mentioned that she has trouble remembering things.
2.     The
Tenant provided a copy of her hospital wrist band and a picture of her
prescription she received on that day.
3.     The
Tenant stated that the second-named Tenant, her daughter, was also unable to
attend because she was out of the country.  The second-named Tenant is very ill
and is currently suffering from mental illness is unable to attend this
hearing.
4.     While
the Landlord did not agree to the review, I am satisfied based on the evidence
before the Board that the Tenants genuinely intended to participate in the
hearing.  For this reason, the review is granted.
APPLICATION FOR
NON-PAYMENT OF RENT
5.     The
Tenants have not paid the total rent they were required to pay for the period
from December 1, 2017 to April 30, 2018.  Because of the arrears, the Landlord
served a Notice of Termination effective January 30, 2018.
6.     The
Landlord no longer holds a last month’s rent deposit as it was given back to
the Tenants in December 2017.  The first-named Tenant agrees that the Landlord
has given this amount back to the Tenants.
7.     The
Landlord incurred costs of $190.00 for filing the application and entitled to
reimbursement of those costs. 
SECTION 82 ISSUES
8.     At
the hearing, the Tenants brought forward claims under section 82.  Prior to
proceeding with the Tenants’ claims I inquired as to whether the Tenants were
ready to present their case and if they had all of their evidence ready to go. 
The first-named Tenant stated that she was ready to proceed.
9.     At
this time, I told the first-named Tenant to give the Landlord a copy of all of
her evidence.  I also asked for a list of issues the Tenants wish to bring
forward.  The Tenants’ list consists of the following issues:
a)    Roach
infestation;
b)    Bedbug
infestation;
c)    Rats
the size of cats;
d)    Mice;
e)    Flooding;
f)     Disturbances
from the upstairs unit; and 
g)    Lack
of heat.
10.  The
Landlord stated he was ready to continue with the application based on the
Tenants’ allegations.  
Infestation
of Roaches, Bedbugs, Rats and Mice
11.  The
first-named Tenant testified that she told the Landlord of the issue regarding
the roaches and bedbugs in a conversation over the phone on November 15, 2017.
12.  The
Tenant also said that she had notified the Landlord’s Property Manager about
the issue via text message and/or email.  When asked to present the
correspondence the Tenant searched her phone and then said she could not find
the text messages.  Then the Tenant said it was sent by email.  She seemed to
search her phone again and then stated she deletes all of her sent emails.  
13.  The
Landlord provided a copy of a letter from S.Q.P.C. A.W.L.S. (‘S.Q.’) which
notes they attended the basement unit three times prior to the Tenant moving in
to the rental unit.  Each time S.Q. sprayed the rental unit.  
14.  The
Tenant claims that S.Q. is not a real company.  She said that someone from
Ontario Disability Support Program (‘ODSP’) told her that they looked up the
company to find that it did not exist.  As this was a curious statement, I did
a search on Google using the phone number provided on the invoice.  The Google
search provided me with the company’s website, information on Canada411, and
the company’s Facebook profile.  As I did this search the very next day after
the hearing, I do not find it to be plausible that the company creating all of
the internet data within one night.  
15.  The
Property Manager testified that she viewed the rental unit when she first met
the first-named Tenant on December 2, 2017.  She did not find any pests as
described by the Tenant.  She also did an inspection with a pest control
company a few weeks ago and neither the pest control company nor she found any
pests as described by the Tenant.
16.  The
Property Manager further stated that when she first met the first-named Tenant
and the Tenant told her about bugs the Property Manager asked if she wanted a
pest control company to attend the unit.  The Tenant refused the offer.
17.   The
first-named Tenant said she did not tell the Landlord about the rats or mice
that she saw approximately four weeks ago.  She said she did tell the Property
Manager about them via text but, again, could not produce the text.  Then she
stated it was via email and again said she does not keep her emails.
18.  Lastly,
the Tenants presented a ‘Schedule A’ of an order dated November 16. 2017 from
the City of Toronto (‘City’).  This schedule states that, “all properties shall
at all times be kept free of roaches and other pests from condition which may
encourage infestation by pests.”
19.  While I
find the first-named Tenant’s testimony to be less than credible due to the
inconsistency, I find the order from the City pivotal to the question of
whether or not there were pests in the rental unit previously or during the
tenancy.  I do not believe the pest level was at an infestation as the Tenant
describes; however, the lack of response from the Landlord to continue to deal
with the pest issue is questionable.  
20.  Having
noted that, I believe the Property Manager when she stated that treatment was
offered and the Tenants rejected the offer.  In this case, the Tenants are also
culpable in this situation.  
21.  Given all
of the above, I am satisfied the Landlord did not act in a timely and effective
manner regarding the pests and for that reason remedy will granted below.
Flooding
22.  The
first-named Tenant stated that there was a flood in the rental unit within the
first week of her tenancy.  She then proceeded to say it was the first day of
her tenancy on November 15, 2017.  The Tenant said she told the Landlord on
this same day and the Landlord did not deal with the issue until November 29,
2017.  She submitted copies of Plumbing Field Invoices from Enercare who
attended the unit on November 29 to assess and fix the problem.  The Tenant
submitted pictures, but it is difficult to determine what is going on in each
picture other than an unclean floor in one.
23.  The
parties agree that the issue was from the upstairs rental unit and the plumbing
which created the leak into the basement unit.  
24.  Representatives
from Enercare attended twice on November 29, 2017.  The first representative
noted that they snaked pipes and was sending another representative later on in
the day.  The second representative notes that the drain was snaked again.  The
furnace area was very wet upon arrival and they were unsure of the source of
the water.  
25.  The
first-named Tenant provided additional testify that there were other leaks on
December 5, 2017 and January 23, 2018; however, provided no further supporting
evidence of these leaks.
26.  The
Landlord testified that the issue had been fixed with the snaking of the drains
and that there were no other leaks.  The Property Manager testified that she
received no correspondence from the Tenants about the leaks as it happened
prior to her being hired in December 2017.
27.  Based on
the evidence before the Board, I am satisfied there was only one leak and the
Landlord dealt with the leak in a timely and effective manner.  No remedy is
granted for this issue.
Disturbances
from Upstairs Tenants
28.  The
first-named Tenant claimed the police have attended the residential complex 108
times since she moved in November 15, 2017.  She stated that the police told
her she could get a copy of the police occurrences, but the Tenant failed to
provide this information saying that it would have taken her a month to get the
report.  As I told the Tenant at the hearing, the Tenant was asked whether she
was ready to proceed with her claim and whether she had all of her evidence. 
She confirmed she did and we began the hearing.  
29.  The
first-named Tenant said she spoke with the Property Manager about the
disturbances and the Property Manager confirmed this conversation.  She also
confirmed that the Landlord gave the Tenants back their last month’s rent
deposit, in addition to paying the Tenants money for storage and moving so the
Tenants could find a new location due to the fact that the Tenants were unhappy
with the upstairs tenants.  
30.  Furthermore,
the Property Manager attempted to find the Tenants a new temporary location in
order to appease the Tenants and the Tenants refused the offer because it would
mean they would be in a house with a man.  
31.  The
first-named Tenant went on to say that her daughter attempted suicide because
of the upstairs tenants; however, provided no evidence to support her extremely
serious declaration.  This does not mean I do not believe the second-named
Tenant may have attempted to take her own life.  I believe such an issue is of
the utmost import and must be dealt with appropriately.  What the first-named
Tenant failed to determine is that it is as a result of the upstairs tenants as
opposed to possible mental illness that she stated her daughter suffers from.
32.  The
Landlord stated that he has taken the necessary steps for eviction regarding
the upstairs tenants due to the complaints received.  He currently has a date
of Sheriff enforcement of April 16, 2018 for these tenants.
33.  Here, the
Landlord took appropriate action to rectify the issue of the upstairs tenants
and the disturbances by the tenants.  The Landlord said he had no knowledge of
108 police visits, but he was aware of a few visits.  
34.  I am
satisfied the Landlord did as he was supposed to in this instance.  For this
reason, no remedy will be awarded for this situation.
Lack of
Heat
35.  The
first-named Tenant stated there was no heat at all in the basement unit since
November 2017.  There is only one air vent located in the kitchen of the unit. 
She also declared that she was unable to buy a portable heater because her
daughter has ‘winter skin’ and the heat source must be a gas furnace.  
36.  The
Property Manager admittedly saw the first-named Tenant dressed in two robes and
boots when she first met the Tenant; however, she did not mention feeling cold
in the unit.  While the Property Manager was in the unit she asked the upstairs
tenant to turn on the furnace and when he did, the air vent was blowing hot
air.  
37.  The
first-named Tenant asked for an extra vent to be put in the basement in the
hallway.  The Landlord stated he would have reimbursed her for work done by her
husband as the Tenant said her husband could put the extra vent in.  The Tenant
said her husband said that the work could not be done due to the state of the
wall.  Her husband did not attend the hearing to testify.
38.  In this
case, the Tenants failed to provide sufficient evidence to prove their
allegation of no heat in the rental unit.   
39.  This
claim is dismissed.
Section
82 Remedies Requested
40.  The
Tenants requested the following remedies: abatement of rent; out-of-pocket
expenses; and damages arising from the breach in the nature of pain and
suffering.
41.  Abatement
of the rent is the most common remedy awarded to tenants in these kinds of
situations. It is intended to reflect the idea that if a tenant is paying rent
for a bundle of goods and services and not receiving everything being paid for,
then the tenant is entitled to abatement of the rent proportional to the
difference between what is being paid for and what is being received. 
42.  Here, the
Tenants had a concern about a pest issue, the Landlord offered treatment, and
the Tenants refused the offer.  The Landlord did give back the Tenants’ last
month’s rent deposit, and paid for storage and moving costs with the
understanding the Tenants were moving.  Instead, the Tenants stayed on and
continued the tenancy.
43.  Given the
above, I believe the abatement of 50% of rent charged from November 15, 2017 to
February 28, 2018 as requested by the Tenants is unreasonable.  Given my
knowledge of like applications, a reasonable abatement for this period is 10%
of the rent charged or $331.07.
44.  The
Tenants led insufficient evidence to support their claim for out-of-pocket
expenses and for damages arising from the breach in the nature of pain and
suffering in the amount of $4,000.00.
Relief
from Eviction
45.  The
first-named Tenant testified that she is partially moved out and she will be
vacating the rental unit on or before April 30, 2018.  She also stated that she
has withheld $3,000.00 in rent and she has this money available at this time.  
46.  Taking
into consideration the reimbursement of the Tenants’ last month’s rent deposit
already to aid in the Tenants’ next rental unit and the money given for storage
and moving, I believe the Tenants’ request to prolong payment for 45 days is
unreasonable.
47.  Also, the
Tenants are already partially moved out.  To delay termination at this point
does not seem reasonable.
48.  I have
considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection
83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that
it would be unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1)
of the Act.
49.  An order
with standard terms for payment shall issue.
50.  This
order contains all of the reasons for my decision within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.  
It is ordered that:
 
1.     Order
TEL-88344-18 issued on March 12, 2018 is cancelled and replaced by the
following: 
2.     Unless
the Tenant voids the order as set out below, the tenancy between the Landlord
and the Tenants is terminated.  The Tenants must move out of the rental unit on
or before April 17, 2018.
3.     The
Tenants shall pay to the Landlord $3,617.10*, which represents the amount of
rent owing and compensation up to April 6, 2018 and less the amount of the
abatement the Landlord owes the Tenants.
4.     The
Tenants shall also pay to the Landlord $31.23 per day for compensation for the
use of the unit starting April 7, 2018 to the date they move out of the unit.
5.     The
Tenants shall also pay to the Landlord $190.00 for the cost of filing the
application.
6.     If
the unit is not vacated on or before April 17, 2018, then starting April 18,
2018, the Landlord may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office
(Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced.
7.     Upon
receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to
give vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord, on or after April 18, 2018.
8.     If,
on or before April 17, 2018, the Tenants pay the amount of $4,840.00** to the
Landlord or to the Board in trust, this order for eviction will be void.  This
means that the tenancy would not be terminated and the Tenants could remain in
the unit.  If this payment is not made in full and on time, the Landlord may
file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction
may be enforced.
9.     The
Tenants may make a motion to the Board under subsection 74(11) of the Act to
set aside this order if they pay the amount required under that subsection on
or after April 18, 2018 but before the Sheriff gives vacant possession to the
Landlord. The Tenants are only entitled to make this motion once during the
period of the tenancy agreement with the Landlord.
 
April 6, 2018                                                                     _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Shelby
Whittick
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or
toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires on October 18, 2018 if the order has not been
filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that
has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.
 
*           Refer to section A on the attached Summary of
Calculations.
**         Refer to section B on the attached Summary of
Calculations.




Schedule 1
SUMMARY OF CALCULATIONS
 
File Number: TEL-88344-18-RV
 
A.        Amount the Tenants must pay if the tenancy is
terminated:
 



Reasons for amount owing


Period


Amount



 



 Arrears: (up to the termination date in
  the Notice of Termination)


December 1, 2017 to January 30, 2018


$1,886.99



 



Plus compensation: (from the day after the
  termination date in the Notice to the date of the order)


January 31, 2018 to April 6, 2018


$2,061.18



 



Less amount owing to the Tenant for abatement/rebate:


 


-$331.07



 



Amount owing to the Landlord on the order date:(total of previous boxes)


$3,617.10



 



Additional costs the Tenants must pay to the Landlord:


$190.00



 



Plus daily compensation owing for each day of occupation
  starting April 7, 2018:


$31.23 (per
  day)



 



Total the Tenants must pay the Landlord if the tenancy is
  terminated:


$3,807.10, + $31.23 per day starting April 7, 2018



 
 
 
 
 
B. Amount the Tenants must pay to void the eviction order and
continue the tenancy:
 



Reasons for amount owing


Period


Amount



 



Arrears:


December 1, 2017 to April 30, 2018


$4,750.00



 



Less amount owing to the Tenant for abatement/rebate:


 


-$331.07



 



Additional costs the Tenants must pay to the Landlord:


 


$190.00



 



Total the Tenants must pay to continue the tenancy:


On or before April 17, 2018


$4,608.93



 
 

