Metadata:
Date:	2018-06-04
File number:	
TEL-89124-18-RV
	TEL-89124-18-RV
Citation:	TEL-89124-18-RV (Re), 2018 CanLII 111811 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hw7z8>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hw7z8
Content:


Order under Section 21.2 of the 
Statutory Powers Procedure Act 
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-89124-18-RV
 










 
 

Review Order
 
K.P.M.
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict J.A.(the
'Tenant') because the Tenant did not pay the rent that the Tenant owes and has
been persistently late paying the rent.
 
This
application was resolved by order TEL-89124-18 issued on May 16, 2018.
 
On May 29, 2018, the Tenant requested a review of the order.
 
A preliminary review of the review request was completed without a
hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     On
the basis of the submissions made in the request and for the reasons set out
below, I am not satisfied that there is a serious error in the order or that a
serious error occurred in the proceedings or that the Tenant was not reasonably
able to participate.
2.     To
summarise the request for review, the Tenant alleges:
•       
she was not reasonably able to participate;
•       
the Board erred by giving inappropriate weight to the history of
the tenancy as evidenced by prior applications to the Board;
•       
the Board erred by failing to take into account the Landlord’s
admission that the amount claimed as arrears owing was incorrect; and 
•       
the Board erred by failing to grant relief from eviction and by failing
to grant an adjournment request. 
Not
Reasonably Able to Participate
3.     The
Tenant’s request for review alleges she was not reasonably able to participate
in the hearing before the Board, but in fact the Tenant did participate. She
was present, gave evidence and made submissions. So it simply cannot be said
the Tenant was not reasonably able to participate. 
4.     I
believe what the Tenant really intends to say when she alleges she was not
reasonably able to participate is that the hearing did not go well for her. The
review says the Tenant felt “unable to speak”; she “felt intimidated… like I
was already on the wrong foot… I couldn’t defend myself”. As a result she
states “I feel like I haven’t been heard…” and “the Judge was very bias (sic)
towards me”. 
5.     I
have listened to the entirety of the audio recording of the hearing before the
Board and at no time was the Tenant refused permission to speak or prevented
from giving testimony or making submissions. The interactions between the
Member and the Tenant were almost exclusively about the Member asking the
Tenant to provide evidence in support of her assertions or to make submissions
in support of her position. The Member also asked the Tenant if she was asking
for adjournment in response to something she said about not being prepared. The
Member also pointed out to her illogical inconsistencies in her evidence and
gave her an opportunity to explain the inconsistencies. Finally, the Member
explained the law and what the possible outcomes of the hearing might be. 
6.     In
other words, the record does not support the Tenant’s assertion that she was
not reasonably able to participate or that she was not given an opportunity to
be heard or that the Member was biased towards her. 
The
History of the Tenancy
7.     The
request for review says in part:
Previous hearings I
attended where I proved to the judge with money order receipts that I gave them
the rent they say I didn’t pay, but those hearings where I wasnt (sic)
guilty were counted like I was.
8.     This
is a reference to the fact that during the hearing the Landlord presented a
list of the times the parties had been before the Board. In response to this
list the Tenant stated more than once during the hearing that “they were wrong
all of those times they brought me to court”; and “I have been here many times
and it has been because of their mistakes and not my fault”; and “Please look
at the previous instances when I was here and it was not my fault.”
9.     The
history of the Tenant’s appearances before the Board is mentioned in the order
at paragraph 10. It is relevant in that the Tenant was asking for additional
time to pay, promising to get a job, and submitting that she could pay on time
into the future if she was just given a conditional order granting relief. So
the prior history speaks to the Tenant’s credibility; could her promises to pay
on time be believed given what has happened before?
10.  What the
Board’s records show is that since 2011 the Landlord has filed six applications
before this one:
(1)  In Board
file TEL-14636-11 the Landlord filed an application for termination for
non-payment of rent. The Tenant failed to attend the hearing and a standard
order was issued. The Tenant then filed a review. When the review came before
the Board, the Landlord consented to the review being granted and agreed to a
mediated repayment plan. 
(2)  In Board
file TEL-33496-13 the Landlord again sought termination for non-payment of
rent. When the matter came before the Board the parties consented to mediation
and entered into another repayment plan. 
(3)  In Board
file TEL-54566-14 the Landlord sought termination for non-payment of rent and
persistent late payment. The parties again consented to mediation and a new
agreement was made.
(4)  In Board
file TEL-57973-15 the Landlord alleged a breach of the previous agreement but
that application was withdrawn by the Landlord. 
(5)  In Board
file TEL-66203-16 the Landlord alleged a breach of the prior mediated agreement
and the Board issued an eviction order. The Tenant filed a set aside motion.
The Tenant had breached the agreement but the motion was granted conditional on
the Tenant making a certain payment to the Landlord. Presumably that payment
was made. 
(6)  In Board
file TEL-70782-16 the Landlord filed an application for non-payment of rent and
persistent late payment. That application was withdrawn without a hearing. 
11.  What this
history shows is that the Tenant has had ample opportunities to set her tenancy
to rights and start paying rent on time. Sometimes she has complied with mediated
agreements and sometimes she has not. There are arguably two occasions when the
Landlord made a mistake filing an application as two were withdrawn prior to
hearing. 
12.  But it
simply cannot be said the Board gave inappropriate weight to this history
before the Board. It was clearly relevant and supports the proposition that
giving the Tenant conditional relief from eviction would inevitably not end the
cycle of the Landlord having to come to the Board to enforce the obligation to
pay rent in full and on time. 
The
Landlord’s Admissions Regarding the Rent Arrears
13.  The
request for review says:
The opposing counsil (sic)
said in open court that her amounts of money were not correct, and did not
bother to discuss it. 
14.  As stated
above, I have listened to the entirety of the hearing recording. The Tenant’s
assertion that the Landlord’s representative stated during the hearing that the
amounts owing were not correct is simply not true. 
15.  There was
a detailed discussion of the Landlord’s ledger and its accounting practices and
the Landlord’s representative was able to respond to all of the Member’s
questions. The Tenant was given an opportunity to refute that evidence and
produced some records of money orders purchased. That evidence, coupled with
her testimony about how she made payments did not contradict the Landlord’s
ledger in any way. 
The
Discretionary Decisions
16.  Part way
through the hearing the Tenant mentioned she felt unprepared so the Member
asked her if she was seeking adjournment. The Tenant did not actually ask for
one. The request for review says in part:
I told her [the Member]
that my family / friends would help me until I got employed again. She asked me
for proof of that so I asked for another date to come back with proof. She
denied me. 
17.  In
response to questions the Member learned the Tenant had talked to Tenant Duty
Counsel prior to the hearing, and had been represented by them in the past. The
Member concluded from these statements that the Tenant knew how to obtain legal
assistance and had ample opportunity to do so. As a result, no adjournment was
granted. 
18.   Pursuant
to Guideline # 8 Review of an Order:
Serious error includes:
…
An unreasonable exercise
of discretion which results in an order outside the usual range of remedies or
results and where there are no reasons explaining the result. 
…
Orders granting relief
from eviction (RTA s. 83(1)) or awarding specific remedies involve an exercise
of the original hearing Member’s discretion and are entitled to deference. The
LTB will not exercise its discretion to review these types of decisions where
the result is within the range of reasonable, acceptable outcomes.
19.  Although
the Board’s Guidelines are not binding I see no reason not to follow the
Guideline in this instance. The Member’s decision not to adjourn the hearing
was clearly reasonable in the circumstances, and that decision cannot properly
be the basis for a review. 
20.  The
second discretionary decision the Tenant complains about in the review request
is with respect to the ultimate decision not to grant relief in the form the
Tenant requested. The Tenant wanted an opportunity to repay the rent arrears
and another chance to start paying rent on time. The order indicates the Member
determined that would be unfair to the Landlord and denied the relief requested
but extended the eviction date to May 31, 2018. 
21.  Under all
of the circumstances here, it cannot be said the Member’s decision was
unreasonable. 
22.  The
Tenant testified that she does not have a job but expected to have one shortly
despite job searching for months. As of the date of the hearing the arrears of
rent owing exceeded $4,000.00. She impliedly acknowledged she cannot pay the
rent arrears owing and her only plan was to borrow from friends and get a new
job. The Landlord’s ledger shows that since July of 2017 the Tenant has made no
payments at all towards the rent except for partial payments made on her behalf
by social assistance. 
23.  The only
factors in favour of relief were the Tenant’s two school age children living in
the unit and the length of the tenancy. 
24.  So given
all of the evidence before the Board it simply cannot be said the decision to
refuse relief in the form of a conditional payment order was unreasonable.
Because of the presence of the children and the length of the tenancy it was
reasonable to grant relief in the form of extending the eviction date, which is
exactly what the Member here did. 
25.  Given all
of the above, I am not satisfied that there is a serious error in the order or
that a serious error occurred in the proceedings or that the Tenant was not
reasonably able to participate. The request for review must be denied. 
26.  This
order contains all of the reasons for the decision within it. No further
reasons shall be issued.
It is ordered that:
 
1.      The
request to review order TEL-89124-18 issued on May 16, 2018 is denied. The order
is confirmed and remains unchanged.
 
June 4, 2018                                                                     _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Ruth
Carey
                                                                                                                           Vice
Chair, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or
toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 

