Metadata:
Date:	2018-11-14
File number:	
TEL-86991-17; 
 TET-85939-17
	TEL-86991-17; 	 TET-85939-17
Citation:	TEL-86991-17 (Re), 2018 CanLII 141543 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/j0f7z>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/j0f7z
Content:


Order under Sections 30,
31 and 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-86991-17
TET-85939-17
 











 
 
 

L.G. (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to
terminate the tenancy and evict D.T. (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant did not
pay the rent that the Tenant owes (the ‘L1 application’).
 
The Tenant applied for an order determining that the
Landlord harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the
Tenant and substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or residential complex by the Tenant or by a member of the Tenant's
household (the ‘T2 application’).
 
The Tenant applied for an order determining that the
Landlord failed to meet the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety,
housing or maintenance standards (the ‘T6 application’).
 
This application was heard in Toronto on April 25,
2018, July 3, 2018, and October 23, 2018.
 
The Landlord, the Landlord’s
representative, R.W.T., and the Tenant attended the hearing. 
 
Determinations:
 
The L1 Application 
 
1.     
The Tenant has not paid the
total rent the Tenant was required to pay for the period from September 1, 2017
to August 19, 2018, when she vacated the rental unit. Because of the arrears,
the Landlord served a Notice of Termination effective December 18, 2017.
2.     
There is no dispute that the
Tenant moved out of the rental unit on August 19, 2018. The Tenant disputes the
amount of arrears claimed in the Landlord’s application which includes rent
owing for the period commencing September 1, 2017, to August 19, 2018. 
3.     
The Tenant says she paid
rent in full for September and October and she paid rent for November and
December 2017 in advance. The Tenant also says she lent money to the Landlord
to pay for a plumber and that money has not been refunded to her. 
4.     
For the reasons that follow,
I find that the Tenant lent money to the Landlord to pay for a plumber which
has not been refunded to her. However, I do not find that the Tenant paid September
or October’s rent in full, or November and December’s rent in advance. I do not
find that the Tenant has paid any rent to the Landlord since a partial payment
towards September’s rent in September 2017. 
5.     
I say this because, during her
testimony, the Landlord admitted that she borrowed money from the Tenant to pay
for plumbing services and she referred directly to receipts that were provided
by the Tenant. These receipts confirm that the Landlord lent the Tenant a total
of $2,932.00 to pay for plumbing services. As this amount is owing to
the Tenant, it will be offset from the outstanding arrears. 
6.     
At the hearing, the Tenant
provided copies of receipts to the Board which she says support her testimony
that she paid September’s rent in full, October’s rent in full as well as November
and December’s rent in advance on October 22, 2017. The Tenant acknowledges
that the handwriting is hers, but she says that she personally filled out the
details on the receipts and the Landlord simply signed each one. The Landlord
says she never received these payments and she did not issue these receipts to
the Tenant. 
7.     
For the following reasons, I
am not satisfied that the Landlord issued these receipts and I am not satisfied
that the Tenant made the payments she describes. First, I do not find it
plausible that the Landlord would agree to sign pre-filled receipts that had
been completed by the Tenant. The Landlord issued two receipts of her own in
February and April 2017. This confirms that the Landlord is capable of completing
receipts and, due to the hostile nature of their relationship, I do not find it
plausible that the Landlord would sign multiple receipts which confirm that thousands
of dollars in rent money was paid in advance. I also say this because the
Landlord and her boyfriend sent numerous text messages to the Tenant in which
they request the balance of September’s rent, as well as October and November’s
rent in full. Had the Landlord signed the receipts as the Tenant describes, I do
not find it to be plausible that the Landlord would continue to request these
amounts from the Tenant.   
8.     
I also find it implausible
that the Landlord would agree to sign the one receipt which does not contain a
number amount. The receipt for December’s rent contains the dollar amount
written in a phrase, but the box for the number amount is blank. I simply do
not find it plausible that the Landlord would agree to sign an essentially
blank receipt agreeing that the Tenant paid December’s rent in advance. 
9.     
I would also observe that
there are numerous text messages between the parties in which the Landlord or
her boyfriend request rent money and the Tenant, for various reasons, fails to
make any payments towards the rent. For example, on one occasion, the Tenant’s
partner sent an e-transfer to an incorrect email address and it is clear from
the text messages that the payment was never successfully sent to the
Landlord’s correct email address. There are also various exchanges in which the
Landlord or her boyfriend attempt to meet with the Tenant to collect the rent,
but those meetings never materialize. 
10.  
I would also observe that
there are numerous text messages between the Landlord and the Tenant in which
the Landlord repeatedly asks for the balance of September’s rent, October’s
rent and eventually November’s rent and at no time over the many weeks that the
parties exchanged text messages does the Tenant ever object to the Landlord’s
request for these periods of rent. At no time does the Tenant remind the
Landlord that she actually paid October’s rent in full and November’s rent “in
advance”. At no time does the Tenant remind the Landlord that she issued
receipts for these payments. This is in stark contrast to a previous text
message exchange in which the Landlord asks for the balance of the last month’s
rent deposit, the Tenant reminds her that she already paid the deposit in full,
and the Landlord agrees that she made a mistake and the deposit has already
been paid. 
11.  
In fact, rather than refer
to any alleged payments made in “advance” the Tenant tells the Landlord that
she has not paid the rent because she is now getting paid “biweekly” from her
job, she has been looking after her grandmother and “she needs money too”. When
she is not providing the Landlord with these excuses, the Tenant also simply
fails to respond to numerous text messages requesting rent payments. At no time
does the Tenant refuse to pay the amounts of rent requested by the Landlord and
at no time does the Tenant tell the Landlord these amounts have already been
paid. 
12.  
Based on the evidence before
me, I am satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the Landlord issued two
receipts in February and April 2017, but did not issue the remaining receipts
before me. 
13.  
Regarding the rent for
December 2017, although the Tenant provided the Board with yet another alleged
receipt claiming she paid December’s rent in advance on October 22, 2017, the
Landlord denies that this payment was ever made. The Landlord also says, after
chasing the Tenant unsuccessfully for weeks regarding the balance of
September’s rent, as well as October and November’s rent, the Landlord simply
stopped asking for monthly rent after November because she no longer wanted to
deal with the stress and aggravation of the situation. The Landlord also says
that she was out of the country from October 28, 2017 to January 12, 2018, and
she was not in a position to repeatedly chase the Tenant for December’s rent
while she was away. Other than the alleged receipt, the Tenant provided no
other documentary evidence to confirm that she paid December’s rent. Based on
the evidence before me, I am satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the
Tenant failed to pay December’s rent to the Landlord. 
14.  
For these reasons, I find
that the arrears claimed on the Landlord’s application are correct. The
Tenant’s receipts are contradicted by the Landlord’s testimony as well as the numerous
text messages which confirm that the Tenant failed to make the payments
described. 
15.  
Regarding the time period
after December 2017, despite my very clear interim order issued on January 30,
2018, and despite my verbal instructions to the Tenant at that time, the
Board’s records indicate that the Tenant has failed to make any rent payments
into the Board for all of 2018. 
16.  
Also, the Landlord provided
documentary evidence to support that, despite receiving a cheque from the
Tenant in the amount of $8,500.00 for rent from January to May 2018 that cheque
was returned for insufficient funds. This confirms that, in addition to the
months of September to December 2017, the Tenant has failed to make any rent
payments since January 2018, and the arrears claimed on the Landlord’s
application and hearing update sheets are correct. 
17.  
The Landlord collected a
rent deposit of $1,700.00 from the Tenant and this deposit is still being held
by the Landlord. Although there was some dispute regarding the last month’s
rent deposit, an undated text message from the Landlord confirms that she did
receive a last month’s rent deposit in full. 
18.  
Interest on the rent deposit
is owing to the Tenant for the period from March 1, 2017 to December 18, 2017,
in the amount of $20.48. 
19.  
An order will issue for the
outstanding arrears less any abatement owed to the Tenant as a result of her
applications. 
The Previous L2 Application 
20.  
On July 10, 2018, the
Landlord’s L2 application came before the Board and order TEL-91425-18 was
issued on consent. The Landlord’s L2 application was based on an N12 notice of
termination which required the Landlord to pay to the Tenant one month’s
compensation pursuant to section 48.1 of the Act. 
21.  
At the hearing for the L1
application, the Landlord’s representative informed me that the one month
compensation has been paid to the Tenant by cheque and, as a result, this
amount not be reflected in the arrears calculation. 
The T2 Application 
22.  
In addition to the issues of
disrepair that will be discussed in the T6 application section of this order,
there are two additional issues on the Tenant’s T2 application. First, the
Tenant says the Landlord’s boyfriend harassed her by repeatedly texting her to
ask for the monthly rent. Second, the Landlord substantially interfered with
the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of her unit by borrowing the Tenant’s bedroom
to conduct a video teleconference with her parents who live out of the country.
For the following reasons, I do not find that the Landlord’s boyfriend harassed
the Tenant or that the Landlord substantially interfered with the Tenant’s
reasonable enjoyment of her unit. 
a)    Harassment 
23.  
First, the Tenant provided
the Board with copies of text messages from the Landlord’s boyfriend in which
he repeatedly asks her to pay the monthly rent. There is no dispute that,
during this time period, the Landlord was out of the country for an extended
period of time and, as she and the Tenant were friends, the Landlord left her
boyfriend responsible for collecting the monthly rent during her absence. 
24.  
As I have already stated
above, the Tenant failed to pay September’s rent in full and then failed to pay
October and November’s rent. The text messages confirm that the Landlord’s
boyfriend repeatedly tried to make arrangements with the Tenant to meet in
person to collect the monthly rent. The Tenant failed to respond to many of
these texts and failed to make any rent payments to the Landlord’s boyfriend. 
25.  
Section 23 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') says “a landlord shall not harass,
obstruct, coerce, threaten or interfere with a tenant”.
26.  
While the term “harassment”
is not defined in the Act, it is generally held that “harassment” is a course
of conduct that a reasonable person knows or ought to know would be unwelcome.
27.  
Based on the evidence before
me, the Landlord’s boyfriend did not breach the Act by asking the Tenant to pay
the monthly rent. None of the text messages are rude or harassing in nature.
The Landlord’s boyfriend does not threaten or intimidate the Tenant in any way
in his messages. Instead, the Landlord’s boyfriend requests the rent, offers to
meet the Tenant at a time convenient to her in order to collect the rent, and
when his attempts to collect the rent fail, he simply stops sending messages to
the Tenant. For these reasons, this portion of the Tenant’s application is
dismissed. 
b)    Substantial Interference
28.  
There is no dispute that, at
the start of the tenancy, the Landlord and the Tenant were friends. There is
also no dispute that the Landlord asked the Tenant to borrow her bedroom to
conduct a video teleconference session with her parents who live out of the
country. This request was part of an elaborate rouse on the part of the
Landlord to convince her parents that she was actually living in the rental
unit and not with her boyfriend at another location.  
29.  
There is no dispute that the
Tenant agreed on at least two occasions to allow the Landlord access to her
bedroom to conduct these video teleconference sessions. 
30.  
Section 22 of the Act says
“a landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit
and before the day on which an order evicting the tenant is executed
substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the
residential complex in which it is located for all usual purposes by a tenant
or members of his or her household.”
31.  
As the Tenant agreed to the
Landlord’s request, it cannot be said that the Landlord substantially
interfered with her reasonable enjoyment of her unit. There is no evidence that
the Landlord made her request in a threatening or intimidating way and there is
no dispute that the Tenant acquiesced to the Landlord’s request. For these
reasons, I do not find that the Landlord breached the Act and I find that this
portion of the Tenant’s application is dismissed. 
The T6 Application 
32.  
The following is a list of
the issues on the Tenant’s T6 application:
•   
sewer backup problems;
•   
gas leaks; 
•   
flood in the basement
storage area; 
•   
mould in the basement
storage area; 
•   
leak/hole in the bathroom
ceiling; and
•   
problems with the air
conditioning system.
33.  
Subsection 20(1) of the Act
says “a landlord is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential
complex, including the rental units in it, in a good state of repair and fit
for habitation and for complying with health, safety, housing and maintenance
standards.” 
34.  
After hearing the Tenant’s
testimony, reviewing the Tenant’s documentary evidence and answering questions
under direct examination, the Landlord admits that there is no dispute
regarding five of the above-noted issues. The Landlord agrees that the sewer
system in the rental unit backed up several times between February 28, 2017,
and March 21, 2017, there were intermittent gas leaks from March 2017 to
November 2017, a flood occurred in the basement on April 8, 2017, there was
mould in the basement storage unit and the Landlord’s contractor left a large
hole in the bathroom ceiling after repairing a leak. 
35.  
As there is no dispute
regarding these issues of disrepair, I find that the Landlord breached her
obligations pursuant to subsection 20(1) and a remedy to the Tenant will be
discussed below. 
a)    The Air Conditioning Unit
36.  
There is no dispute that the
gas company issued four “red tags” throughout 2017 due to several gas leaks
that were coming from the furnace. The term “red tag” is used to describe a
literal tag that is placed on the furnace by the gas company which informs the
owner that there is either that the appliance is unsafe, or that it is safe but
requires repair within 35 days. The Tenant says that some of these red tags
were issued for problems with the air conditioning unit and, for this reason,
the air conditioner was shut off during the entire summer of 2017. 
37.  
The Landlord disputes the
Tenant’s description of events. While she agrees that the gas company issued 4
red tags, the Landlord says these tags were all related to the gas leak in the
furnace and were not related to the air conditioning unit. In addition, the
Landlord says that, even if one of the tags was related to the air conditioner
and the unit was shut off, the Tenant failed to inform her of this problem and
she had no knowledge of any lack of air conditioning in the house. 
38.  
For the following reasons,
while I find that the air conditioner was in a state of disrepair, I find that
it had a nominal impact on the Tenant. 
39.  
I say this because the
written instructions from the gas company on 3 of the 4 red tags relate
entirely to the furnace and the gas leak coming from the furnace. There is no
mention of the air conditioning unit on any of the tags, except the one dated
November 3, 2017. This suggests to me that there were no problems with the air
conditioner prior to November 3, 2017, and I am not satisfied on the balance of
probabilities that the air conditioner was shut off by the gas company during
the summer of 2017. 
40.  
Furthermore, while the
Tenant provided the Board with several examples of charts and reports showing
the temperatures throughout the summer of 2017, the Tenant failed to provide
any documentary evidence to support her testimony that the air conditioning was
shut off in the summer of 2017 or that she informed the Landlord that the air
conditioning was shut off or that the temperature in the house was higher than
21 degrees Celsius. 
41.  
At the hearing, the Tenant
provided the Board with copies of numerous text messages in which she discusses
all of the red tags and the continuous gas leaks with the Landlord. However,
the only text message that mentions the air conditioning unit is dated November
4, 2017, and it corresponds with the fourth red tag that was issued on November
3, 2017. In the text message, the Tenant informs the Landlord that the air
conditioning unit is located too close to the meter but she fails to inform the
Landlord that the unit was shut off all summer or that her family was
experiencing problems due to the lack of air conditioning. 
42.  
There is no dispute that all
the problems with the gas leak and furnace were resolved on November 12, 2017.
The Tenant provided no direct evidence regarding when the problem with the air
conditioner was resolved. However, based on the totality of the Tenant’s
description of events, I find that any minor problem that existed was resolved
on November 12, 2017, along with the gas leak and furnace problems. 
43.  
For these reasons, while I
find that the air conditioning unit was in a state of disrepair from November
3, 2017, to November 12, 2017, I find that the problem existed during 9 days in
the winter and there was no impact on the Tenant or her family. No remedy will
flow to the Tenant for this area of disrepair.  
b)    Remedy for Sewer Backups
44.  
By way of background the
residential complex is a four bedroom house with 3 bedrooms located on the main
floor and one bedroom located in the basement. The house has two bathrooms, a
kitchen and one living area on both floors. The Tenant moved into the rental
unit on February 25, 2017, along with her partner, their two children ages 18
and 22 as well as their two grandchildren ages 4 and 1 year old. 
45.  
There is no dispute between
the parties that the sewer system located under basement of the rental unit
flooded four times between February 28, 2017, and March 21, 2018. There is also
no dispute that the Landlord called various plumbers, and the municipality was
involved because the problem was located on both the city side of the property
and the rental unit side of the problem. Major construction was required by the
city and by contractors to resolve the problem. 
46.  
The Tenant provided pictures
of the numerous holes that were dug by all of the plumbers, as well as pictures
of the sewer backups and the damage they created. The Tenant says she and her
family were unable to use either washroom during this 21 day period while the
sewer backed up 4 times and there was ongoing construction on the property. The
Tenant says she and her family were also unable to use the kitchen sink, her
daughter was unable to sleep in the basement bedroom and they suffered property
damage as a result of the sewer problems. 
47.  
The Tenant is seeking a
cumulative abatement of the rent in the amount of $10,200.00 as well as
compensation for the property damage they suffered in the amount of $3,300.00.  As
mentioned above, the out of pocket expenses of $2,932.00 the Tenant incurred
for the costs of the plumbers has already been deducted from the outstanding
arrears. 
48.  
Abatement recognises the
idea that a tenant is paying rent for a bundle of goods and services and if the
tenant is not receiving everything being paid for then he or she is entitled to
abatement proportional to the difference between what is being paid for and
what is being received.
49.  
As the house consists of 9
rooms and I am satisfied that the Tenant and her family were unable to use 3.5
rooms for 21 days, I find that the Tenant is entitled to an abatement of 38%
for this time period. As the monthly rent is $1,700.00, the abatement is
calculated as follows: 
$1,700.00 x 12 months ÷ 365 = $55.89 per diem
($55.89 x 38%) x 21 days = $446.00
50.  
The Landlord says that she
has already compensation the Tenant for the sewer problems by reducing the
monthly rent by $500.00 for April 2017. In support of her testimony, the
Landlord provided the Board with an undated text message which says “Becuz (sic)
of the sewage problem the rental will be deducted to 1200 this month.”
51.  
The Landlord also points to
a copy of the Tenant’s money order dated April 3, 2017, for $1,200.00 which
says “rent for April 1, 2017”. 
52.  
The Tenant agrees that the
Landlord initially reduced the rent by $500.00 for April, but she says the
Landlord later changed her mind and requested that $500.00 to help pay for the
property tax bill. In support of her testimony, the Tenant provided the Board
with a copy of a receipt that she completed in her handwriting but she says the
Landlord signed. This receipt is the same type of receipt that I have already
discussed above and, for those same reasons, I am not satisfied that the
Landlord issued this receipt for $500.00 to the Tenant. 
53.  
I also say this because
there is no other documentary evidence to support the Tenant’s testimony that
the Landlord requested the $500.00 back to pay for a property tax bill. The
primary method of communication between these parties is text message and,
while the Landlord was able to provide a text message showing the $500.00
discount, the Tenant was unable to provide any text messages showing that the
Landlord requested that money back. For these reasons, I find that the Tenant
has already been adequately compensated for the sewage problems and no further
abatement will be awarded for this issue. 
54.  
The Tenant says much of her
property was damaged by the sewer problems and she is claiming compensation in
the amount of $3,300.00. The Tenant says the property damage includes a baby
table, her daughter’s bedframe, her grandson’s new bed, carpets, strollers and
clothes. 
55.  
The Tenant was unable to
provide any documentary evidence to corroborate her testimony that she suffered
extensive property damage as a result of the sewer problems. The Tenant’s
pictures confirm that one carpet and some clothes were damaged by the sewer
problems, but there is no other evidence to establish that the other items the
Tenant describes were damaged by the sewer disrepair. 
56.  
Based on the evidence before
me, I find that $50.00 represents the reasonable value of the property that was
damaged. However, as the Tenant has already been compensated $500.00 which
includes $446.00 for an abatement with $54.00 remaining, I find that the Tenant
has already been adequately compensated for the damaged property and no further
award will be issued. 
c)    Remedy for Gas Leaks 
57.  
There is no dispute between
the parties that the furnace was in an intermittent state of disrepair from
March 29, 2017, to November 10, 2017. There is no dispute that the gas company
issued the first red tag on March 29, 2017, and turned off the gas on that day.

58.   The Tenant says the Landlord contacted a
contractor who inspected the furnace and turned the gas back on at some point
in the beginning of April. The Tenant says that during
the months between April to October, she and her family experienced severe
health problems due to the ongoing gas leak. The Tenant says she and her family
experienced headaches, dizziness, coughing, nausea and the rental unit constantly
smelled like rotten eggs. The Tenant says she and her family sought medical
attention for their symptoms. 
59.   Ultimately, the Tenant says the gas leak caused her to miss
extensive periods from work and eventually caused her to lose her job. 
 
60.  
The Landlord disagrees with
the Tenant’s description of events. The Landlord says she discussed the furnace
problem with the Tenant in April and they agreed that, as the weather was
becoming warm, having the gas furnace turned off for the summer would not be an
inconvenience to the Tenant and the Landlord would replace the furnace in
October 2017. The Landlord says she received no complaints from the Tenant
regarding a gas leak or heat problems from April to October 2017. 
61.   For the following reasons, I find that the Tenant was not impacted
by the furnace disrepair between the months of April to October 2017. 
62.  
First, the Tenant was unable
to provide any documentary evidence to support her testimony. The Tenant
provided no text messages to the Landlord in which she complains about any of
the symptoms or health problems she described in graphic detail at the hearing.
The Tenant was also unable to provide any medical documentation to establish
that she or her family members visited the doctor to complain of symptoms relating
to the furnace problem. The Tenant was also unable to provide any employment
documentation to confirm her testimony that she lost her job because of the
furnace problem. 
63.  
Second, the Landlord’s
testimony is supported by the documentary evidence. The Landlord obtained a
quote to replace the furnace on March 30, 2017, and the text message between
the parties stop as of this date. There are no written complaints from the
Tenant regarding a gas leak, the smell of gas, ill health effects from a gas
leak or any complaints regarding a lack of heat between March 30, 2017, and
October 30, 2017. The only text message that confirms an ongoing problem is a
message from the Tenant dated October 19, 2017, which says “we’ve had this gas
leak since April. I don’t think it’s an emergency anymore.” This message
suggests that, although there was an ongoing problem with the furnace, the
problem was minor and was not affecting the Tenant or her family. For these
reasons, I find that any furnace problems had virtually no impact on the Tenant
for this time period and no remedy will be awarded. 
64.  
The next indication of a
problem is October 30, 2017, when the gas company issues a second red tag and
the Tenant complains to the Landlord about the lack of heat in the house. The
Tenant provided the Board with a copy of the red tag as well as several text
messages dated October 30, 2017, in which she informs the Landlord that the
house is cold, her family is complaining about the cold and they have purchased
space heaters to create warmth in the house. 
65.  
A third red tag was issued
on November 1, 2017, and a fourth red tag was issued on November 3, 2017. There
is no dispute that the heat and gas were turned off during this time period. 
66.  
Based on the evidence before
me, I am satisfied that the Tenant experienced some disruption to her
activities of daily living in the rental unit for the period of October 30,
2017, to November 10, 2017. Prior to that time period, the Tenant led
insufficient evidence to establish that the furnace was turned off and the lack
of heat was negatively impacting her or her family. 
67.  
As the Tenant experienced
some disruption due to the lack of heat for the 11 day time period, I am
satisfied that an abatement of 10% reasonably compensates the Tenant for that
time period. As the monthly rent is $1,700.00, the calculation is as follows: 
$1,700.00
x 12 months ÷ 365 = $55.89 per diem
($55.89 x 10%) x 11 days = $61.45
d)    Remedy for Basement Flood
68.  
There is no dispute that a
flood occurred the basement storage area on April 8, 2017. There is also no
dispute that the Landlord’s contractor attended the rental unit on that day and
sealed the pipe that caused the flood. 
69.  
The Tenant says that she
suffered property damage as a result of the flood and it took her and her
family over one week to clean up the water. 
70.   The Tenant is claiming compensation in the amount of $3,300.00 for
the property that was damaged in the flood. The Tenant says the damaged
property includes memorabilia of their father who passed away, photographs of
their children, passports, birth certificates and other “irreplaceable” items. 
71.   The Tenant provided the Board with pictures of the water in the
basement, but she failed to provide the Board with any pictures to establish
that her property was damaged by the water. Although the Tenant failed to
provide the Board with any documentary evidence to establish that these items
were damaged in the flood, I am satisfied on the balance of probabilities that
she suffered at least some property damage as a result of the water in the
basement. I say this because at least one of the pictures shows that the Tenant
stored some of her belongings close to the area of the flood and it is more
probable than not that at least some of her belongings were damaged by the
water. For these reasons, I find that a nominal award of $200.00 adequately
compensates the Tenant for any items that may have been damaged by the flood. 
e)    Remedy for Basement Mould
72.   There is no dispute between the parties that mould began to grow in
the basement storage unit as a direct result of the flood. The Landlord agrees
that the only thing she did to resolve the mould problem was instruct the
Tenant to clean it herself. 
73.   The Tenant is seeking an abatement of the rent as well as
compensation for property damage caused by the mould. 
74.   The Tenant says that the mould was a constant problem beginning in mid-April
2017 until she moved out on August 19, 2018. The Tenant says she and her family
were constantly cleaning the mould and were unable to use the storage area to
its fullest extent because of the constant mould growth. The Tenant also says
that the mould caused property damage to some of her belongings in the
basement. 
75.   In support of her testimony, the Tenant provided the Board with
pictures of her belongings which were affected by the mould. The Tenant also
provided pictures of the basement storage unit which appears to show mould
growing in the storage area. 
76.   The Tenant also provided the Board with a copy of a mould analysis
report which was conducted to the basement storage area on November 14, 2017.
The report confirms that, while there is some mould growth present, the mould
is not unsafe and will not cause any health effects. 
77.   Based on the evidence before me, I am satisfied on the balance of
probabilities that mould began to grow in the basement following the flood and
this mould caused damage to some articles of the Tenant’s property. Although
the mould was not a health hazard, based on the Tenant’s pictures, I am
satisfied that the mould damaged some of the Tenant’s property and prevented
the Tenant from having full use of the basement storage area. 
78.  
Abatement recognises the
idea that a tenant is paying rent for a bundle of goods and services and if the
tenant is not receiving everything being paid for then he or she is entitled to
abatement proportional to the difference between what is being paid for and
what is being received.
79.   Based on the size of the house, the basement storage area represents
approximately 5% of the total area of the house. This means that the Tenant was
unable to use the storage area for the period of April 2017 until she moved out
of the house in August 2018. As the monthly rent is $1,700.00 the abatement is
calculated as follows: 
($1,700.00
x 5%) x 17 months = $1,445.00
80.   Based on the Tenant’s pictures, I am satisfied that some of the
Tenant’s property was damaged by the mould. This property includes clothes,
books, jackets and other memorabilia. I estimate the market value of these
items to be approximately $100.00 and an order will issue for this
amount to compensate the Tenant for the property damage caused by the mould. 
81.   I would also note that the Tenant provided the Board with two
pictures of water damage under the bathroom sink but I am not satisfied that
this is related to the flood that occurred in the basement storage area. 
f)     Remedy for the Basement Leak and Hole
82.   There is no dispute that a leak occurred in the basement bathroom ceiling
on April 30, 2018. Although the notes attached to the Tenant’s photographs
slightly contradict the Tenant’s verbal testimony, the Tenant was very clear at
the hearing when she said the bathroom leak took place over the course of one
day. Based on the Tenant’s verbal testimony and the Landlord’s verbal
testimony, I am satisfied that the Landlord’s contractor attended the rental
unit that same day and repaired the problem. As the Landlord responded in a
timely and effective manner to the bathroom leak, no remedy will flow to the
Tenant. 
83.   However, there is also no dispute that, while repairing the bathroom
leak, the Landlord’s contractor cut a large hole in the bathroom ceiling that
was not repaired until after the Tenant moved out of the unit in August 2018. 
84.   The Tenant provided pictures of the large hole in the bathroom
ceiling. One of the Tenant’s pictures taken on January 29, 2018, shows that the
Tenant covered the hole with a large baby diaper box. 
85.   Based on the evidence before me, I am satisfied that the bathroom
ceiling was in a state of disrepair because of the large hole from April 2017
until August 2018. I also find that the hole in the ceiling was largely
cosmetic and had minimal disruption on the Tenant’s activities of daily living.
As a result, I find that a nominal abatement of $20.00 each month for this 17
month time period adequately compensates the Tenant for this impact of this
area of disrepair. The calculation is as follows: 
$20.00 x 17 months = $340.00
g)    Final Calculation 
86.   The final amount the Landlord owes to the Tenant is $2,046.45
for an abatement of the rent and compensation for damage to the Tenant’s
property. This amount will be offset from the outstanding arrears owed by the
Tenant. 
87.   This order contains all the reasons within it and no further reasons
will be issued. 
It is ordered that:
1.     
The Tenant’s T2 application
is dismissed. 
2.     
The tenancy between the
Landlord and the Tenant was terminated on August 19, 2018. 
3.     
The Tenant shall pay to the
Landlord $12,244.26*, which represents the amount of rent owing and
compensation up to August 19, 2018, less the rent deposit and interest the
Landlord owes on the rent deposit.
4.     
The Tenant shall also pay to
the Landlord $175.00 for the cost of filing the application.
5.     
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord the full
amount owing* on or before November 25, 2018, the Tenant will start to owe
interest.  This will be simple interest calculated from November 26, 2018, at
3.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
 
November 14, 2018                                                        _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Laura
Hartslief
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
*           Refer to section A on
the attached Summary of Calculations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule
1
SUMMARY
OF CALCULATIONS
 
File
Number: TEL-86991-17
TET-85939-17
 
A.        Amount the Tenant
must pay if the tenancy is terminated:
 



Reasons for amount owing


Period


Amount



 



 Arrears: (up to the termination date in
  the Notice of Termination)


September 1, 2017 to December
  18, 2017


$5,306.03



 



Less the amount the Tenant
  previously paid in out of pocket expenses  


 


-$2,932.00



 



Plus compensation: (from the day after the
  termination date in the Notice to the date of the order)


December 19, 2017 to August 19,
  2018


$13,637.16



 



Less the rent deposit:


 


-$1,700.00



 



Less the interest owing on the
  rent deposit:


March 1, 2017 to December 18,
  2017


-$20.48




Less the amount owing to the
  Tenant for abatement and property damage: 


 


$2,046.45



 



Amount owing to the Landlord on
  the order date:(total
  of previous boxes)


$12,244.26



 



Additional costs the Tenant must
  pay to the Landlord:


$175.00



 



 


 



 



Total the Tenant must pay the
  Landlord:


$12,419.26



 
 
 

