Metadata:
Date:	2018-05-09
File number:	
TEL-88801-18
	TEL-88801-18
Citation:	TEL-88801-18 (Re), 2018 CanLII 111797 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hw7xp>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hw7xp
Content:


Order under Sections 69 and 89
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-88801-18
 










 
 
 

A.
C. L. (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
S. M. S. (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant did not pay the rent that the Tenant
owes and because she, another occupant of the rental unit or someone she
permitted in the residential complex has wilfully caused undue damage to the
premises. The Landlord has also applied for an order requiring the Tenant to
compensate the Landlord for the damage.
 
This
application was heard in Whitby on April 3, 2018.
 
The Landlord’s agent, W. M., and the Tenant attended the hearing.
Also present at the hearing was T. P. (the ‘Occupant’).
 
Determinations:
 
1.      This
application is about damage to the rental unit and rent arrears.
2.      At
the beginning of the hearing I amended the application on my own motion to
remove the Occupant as a named party. He is not a tenant under the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'). A tenant is a person who negotiates with a
landlord to rent a residential rental unit.  As the Occupant moved in well
after the start of the tenancy, and absent the parties entering into a new
tenancy agreement to include him, he is an occupant and not a tenant.
3.      I
also raised a preliminary issue with respect to the Landlord’s notice of
termination for non-payment of rent (Form N4). Unlike the Landlord’s notice of
termination for wilful damage, it does not identify the rental unit. Pursuant
to s. 43(1)(a) a notice of termination must identify the rental unit. As this
one does not, I find that the notice is invalid. The Board cannot evict the
Tenant based on an invalid notice of termination. As a result, the request in
the application for an eviction order for rent arrears must be dismissed.  
4.      In
response to my questions the Landlord elected to proceed with the arrears
application pursuant to s. 87(1) of the Act for an order for rent arrears only.

5.      The
Occupant paid $1,250.00 to the Landlord on behalf of the Tenant after the
application was filed. As a result, the rent arrears owing as of the date of
the hearing before the Board for the period ending April 30, 2018 total
$1,700.00. The Tenant does not dispute owing this amount. 
6.      The
Landlord incurred costs of $190.00 for filing the application and is entitled
to an order for those costs.
7.      The
Landlord’s notice of termination with respect to wilful damage alleges the
Tenant, an occupant or a guest wilfully damaged: two interior doors; the north
wall of the rental unit as well as parts of other walls; the lock of the
entrance door; and a car in the parking lot. 
8.      With
respect to the last of these allegations, the notice states the Tenant, a guest
or an occupant threw nails into the common areas including the parking lot
causing someone to have a flat tire. 
9.      As
I stated at the hearing both ss. 63(1)(a) and 89(1) specifically refer to
damage to the rental unit or to the residential complex. A car in the parking
lot is not part of the residential complex or rental unit so the flat tire is
not something that can be considered wilful damage under either provision. 
10.   The
Tenant disputes responsibility the Landlord’s claims with respect to the damage
to the walls. She says some of it was there when she moved in. The Landlord
disagrees but cannot produce any pictures of the unit when the Tenant moved in
or an inspection report from when she took possession. As a result, I find that
the evidence is insufficient to establish that the Tenant, a guest or occupant
wilfully (or negligently under s. 89) damaged the walls.  
11.   But
the Tenant acknowledges that she threw a party, alcohol was involved, and the
bathroom door was damaged. She says she does not know how it happened. The
picture provided by the Landlord shows damage consistent with someone punching
or kicking the door in or smashing it with a heavy object. As a result, I am
satisfied that a guest of the Tenant’s or an occupant wilfully damaged the
bedroom door. 
12.   The
Tenant also acknowledges that her then boyfriend similarly smashed in the
bedroom door. Again, the picture provided by the Landlord shows damage
consistent with someone punching or kicking the door in or smashing it with a
heavy object. 
13.   During
the time this same ex-boyfriend was living in the rental unit, he and the
Tenant came into conflict and he damaged the front door handle and lock by
trying to force his way into the unit while she was trying to keep him out.
They broke up after that and he moved out. As he was an occupant at the time
this occurred, I am satisfied that an occupant of the rental unit wilfully
damaged the front door lock and handle.  
14.   In
addition to an eviction order the Landlord seeks an order for compensation
under s. 89(1) for the undue damage described above. 
15.   The
problem with the Landlord’s s. 89(1) claim is that the only evidence he
provided with respect to the reasonable cost of repair or replacement is
essentially his own opinion. Although he had a contractor inspect the rental
unit to provide a quote he did not file one into evidence or produce the
contractor to testify. 
16.   Further,
I agree with the Tenant that his claims of $400.00 for each of the interior
doors is unreasonable. The pictures show the doors in question are inexpensive
hollow core doors that can be purchased for $100.00 or less. Further, there is
no evidence before the Board to suggest a contractor would actually charge
$300.00 to hang a new door. 
17.   Given
that the Landlord bears the burden of prove under s. 89(1), I find that the
Landlord’s evidence is insufficient to establish the reasonable cost of repair
or replacement and that part of the application must be dismissed for lack of
evidence. 
18.   The
final issue before the Board is the Tenant’s request for relief from eviction
pursuant to s. 83(1) of the Act. 
19.   The
Tenant asks that she be permitted to stay in the rental unit and repay the rent
arrears over time. She is also willing to do the repairs herself. She says that
if she is required to pay the reasonable cost of repairs she would like a
repayment plan for that amount as well. The Landlord opposes relief and asks
that the standard eviction order be issued.
20.   The
Tenant moved into the rental unit in September of 2017 so this is a fairly new
tenancy. She lost her job in mid-January of 2018 which is why she fell into
arrears of rent. The payments made since the application were filed were made
by the Occupant not the Tenant but his income is from piece work so it is
unpredictable. Just prior to the hearing before the Board the Tenant was granted
employment insurance benefits of $700.00 every two weeks. 
21.   The
Tenant asks that she be granted a repayment plan of two $500.00 payments in the
first month and two $445.00 payments in the second month. 
22.   The
Landlord says the corporate Landlord is a family owned business. The
residential complex does not produce enough income to carry its costs. The
Landlord’s agent is the president of the corporation and he is in receipt of
Old Age Security. Last year he had to borrow money to pay the taxes and he has
to pay out of pocket for some repairs. The building is heavily mortgaged and is
primarily commercial. There are only three residential units; the other 45 are
commercial and there is a very high vacancy rate. In other words, the Landlord
is facing financial hardship and cannot afford to go without regular rental
income or to pay for damages caused by the Tenant or her guests. 
23.   Given
all of the above, I am not satisfied that it would not be unfair to grant
relief to the Tenant as requested. I say this for the reasons that follow. 
24.   One
problem is that the Tenant cannot afford her proposed repayment plan. As the
monthly rent is $1,050.00, after paying rent the Tenant has only $466.66 per
month left for all expenses. In other words, the Tenant’s proposal relies on the
Occupant giving her money and helping her out. As he is not a tenant he has no
legal obligation to give rent to the Landlord nor could the Landlord pursue him
for unpaid rent if the Occupant did not assist the Tenant as she obviously
expects.
25.   Perhaps
more importantly, the Tenant’s behaviour over the course of this short tenancy
indicates her life is somewhat chaotic. She has chosen to associate with people
who are violent. As a result, considerable damage has been done to the rental
unit. Her own behaviour is such that she cannot explain how the damage to the
bathroom door occurred even though she was in the rental unit at the time of
the party. She has fortunately managed to extricate herself from her
relationship with the ex-boyfriend but provided no assurances that she has
stopped associating with people who party and trash the unit. She has never
called the police to protect herself from physical harm or to prevent damage to
the rental unit from guests. In other words, the evidence and the Tenant’s behaviour
suggest the same kinds of problems are likely to re-occur. 
26.   In
addition, the Tenant says that she and the Occupant can do the repairs needed
and she would like the opportunity to do so. The Tenant had such an
opportunity. The notice of termination was served on her on February 10, 2018.
The hearing before the Board was on April 3, 2018, almost two months later. If
the Tenant and the Occupant were truly capable of doing repairs to an
acceptable professional standard they had ample time to demonstrate that, but
they did not. 
27.   Given
all of the above I agree with the Landlord that granting the Tenant the relief
she asks for is unlikely to stop the problems associated with this tenancy. As
a result I find that it would be unfair to grant the relief requested. 
28.   As
the Tenant has sufficient means to move and this is a short-lived tenancy and
there are no children living in the unit, there is also no reason for delaying the
eviction process. The Board’s standard eviction order shall issue.
29.   The
Landlord collected a rent deposit of $1,050.00 from the Tenant and this deposit
shall be applied to the rent due for the last month of the tenancy. 
30.   Interest
on the rent deposit is owing to the Tenant for the period from April 1, 2017 to
February 21, 2018 totalling $16.94. This amount shall also be offset against
the rent arrears owing.
31.   This
order contains all of the reasons for the decision within it. No further
reasons shall be issued.
It
is ordered that:
1.      The
tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenant is terminated, as of February 21,
2018. The Tenant must move out of the rental unit on or before May 20, 2018.
2.      The
Tenant shall pay to the Landlord $633.06 for arrears of rent up to April 30,
2018, less the rent deposit and interest the Landlord owes on the rent deposit.

3.      The
Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord $34.52 per day for compensation for the
use of the unit from May 1, 2018 to the date she moves out of the unit.
4.      The
Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord $190.00 for the cost of filing the
application.
5.      If
the Tenant does not pay the Landlord the full amount owing on or before May 20,
2018, they will start to owe interest.  This will be simple interest calculated
from May 21, 2018 at 3.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
6.      If
the unit is not vacated on or before May 20, 2018, then starting May 21, 2018,
the Landlord may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so
that the eviction may be enforced.
7.      Upon
receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to
give vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after May 21, 2018.
 
May 9, 2018                                                                      _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Ruth
Carey
                                                                                                                           Vice
Chair, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or
toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires on November 21, 2018 if the order has not been
filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that
has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.
 
 

