Metadata:
Date:	2018-01-26
File number:	
TNL-99287-17; 
 TNT-99703-17
	TNL-99287-17; 	 TNT-99703-17
Citation:	TNL-99287-17 (Re), 2018 CanLII 42603 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hs0dh>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hs0dh
Content:


Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNL-99287-17
TNT-99703-17



 


 


 



 
 
PT
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict FD
(the 'Tenant') because the Tenant has been persistently late in paying the
Tenant's rent (the ‘L2 application’).
 
The
Tenant applied for an order determining that the Landlord harassed, obstructed,
coerced, threatened or interfered with the Tenant and substantially interfered
with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the
Tenant or by a member of the Tenant's household (the ‘T2 application’). 
 
These
applications were heard in Toronto on January 25, 2018.
 
The Landlord, the Landlord’s legal representative, NA, and the
Tenant, assisted by BN, attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
The Landlord’s L2 application for persistent late payment of rent
 
1.     The
undisputed evidence discloses that this is a monthly tenancy, that rent is payable
on the first day of each month, and that the Tenant has failed to pay the rent
when it was due in 16 of the 16 months preceding the hearing of this
application.  I am satisfied that the Tenant has persistently failed to pay the
rent on the date it was due.  
2.     According
to the testimony of the Tenant, he has lived in the rental unit since 1980. 
The Landlord acquired the property in about 2011.
3.     The
Tenant states that when the cheque on which he relies for payment of the rent
arrives late, he is sometimes a little late in paying the rent.  He testified
that he always contacted the Landlord to let him know that the rent would be a
few days late, and the Landlord always told him this would not be a problem. 
This is denied by the Landlord.
4.     The
Tenant states that he can pay his rent on time going forward.  He wishes to
preserve his tenancy and is agreeable to an order requiring him to pay his rent
on time for a 12-month period.  He requests that the Landlord provide him with
bank account details so that he can make direct deposits to the Landlord’s
account, thereby avoiding delays if the Landlord does not come to pick up the
rent on time.
5.     The
Landlord testified that there were no issues with late payment of rent by this
Tenant until March, 2016, but states that the rent has been persistently paid
late since then.  The Landlord strenuously opposes the granting of relief and
seeks an order terminating the tenancy.
6.     This
is a very long tenancy.  Although the evidence discloses that the rent has been
paid late in each of the 16 months before the hearing, in 9 of those months,
the rent was late by 4 days or less, and it has never been paid more than 12
days late in the period from January, 2017 to January, 2018.  There are no
current arrears.  There have been no previous applications to the Board in
relation to this tenancy.  In these circumstances, the Tenant should be given
an opportunity to preserve the tenancy by paying his rent on time as he
testified he can do. 
7.     In
order to balance the interests of the Landlord, section 78 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') will apply so that, if the Tenant fails to
make any of the payments set out below, the Landlord will be entitled to apply
to the Board, within 30 days of default and without further notice to the
Tenant, to terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenant.
8.     I
have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with
subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and
find that it would not be unfair to grant relief from eviction subject to  the
conditions set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1) of
the Act.
9.     Because
the Landlord was not successful in obtaining an order which allows the relief
he asked for or substantially all of that relief (Guideline 3 of the Board’s Interpretation
Guidelines), and because of my findings in relation to the Tenant’s
application for harassment, I decline to order the Tenant to pay the Landlord’s
application filing fee.
The Tenant’s T2 application for harassment and substantial
interference
 
10.  The
Tenant claims that the Landlord brought the L2 application because the Landlord
wants to evict the Tenant because the Landlord believes that the rent paid by
the Tenant is below current market value as a result of the long duration of
the tenancy, and the Landlord wants to substantially raise the rent for the
rental unit.  The Tenant testified that the Landlord increased his rent from
$700 when the Landlord purchased the building (which is denied by the Landlord). 
The Tenant states that the Landlord repeatedly pressures him to agree to raise
the rent from the $980.00 presently being paid by the Tenant to $1,300.00. 
Although the Tenant was unable to provide specific dates of such requests, he
testified that they are made every time the Landlord sees him.  The Tenant
responds to such requests by saying that a small increase would be acceptable, but
such a large increase would not be manageable.
 
11.  The
Landlord denied making those requests of the Tenant, and testified that he had
not attempted to raise the rent at all since becoming the Landlord in 2011. 
The Tenant then produced a letter from the Landlord dated May 11, 2013
addressed to the tenants of the residential complex referring to notices of
rent increase given by the Landlord purporting to increase the rent by 3.5% as
of June 1, 2013.  This would have been an illegal increase because it was for
more than the guideline amount permitted by the Act, and there is no evidence
that an order had been made by the Board authorizing an above guideline
increase.  The Landlord responded by saying that the increase had not been
implemented.  Even if that is true, it is inconsistent with the Landlord’s
previous evidence, and it also supports the Tenant’s testimony that the
Landlord wants to increase the rents in the building, even if by means not
authorized by the Act.
 
12.  I also
find support for the Tenant’s evidence in the position taken by the Landlord as
to the remedy requested by the Landlord for the Tenant’s persistent late
payment of rent.  The Landlord is entitled to insist upon a contractual right
to the payment of rent on time.  However, given the very lengthy tenancy,
the absence of any prior applications to the Board, and the fact that the
payments, although late, were frequently late by only two or three days, and,
for at least the previous year, were always made in full before the middle of
the month, this is an obvious case for an order requiring timely rent payments
going forward.  Instead, the Landlord continued to ask for termination of the
tenancy, from which I infer that his objective was to terminate the tenancy
rather than to have the rent paid on time.  The Landlord is entitled to seek
termination of the tenancy as authorized by the Act, but I find that his choice
to do so in this case and to persist in that position throughout the hearing
supports the Tenant’s evidence about the Landlord’s attempts to increase the
rent.
 
13.  On the
evidence before me, I prefer the testimony of the Tenant and find on a balance
of probabilities that the Landlord has repeatedly harassed the Tenant and
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential complex by the Tenant by pressuring and coercing him to agree to an
above guideline increase in violation of the Act, and that the Landlord’s L2
application was brought in furtherance of those attempts.
 
14.  The
Tenant also claimed that the Landlord was harassing him because the Landlord
perceived that the Tenant was not supporting the Landlord in a dispute
involving a previous tenant.  The Tenant’s testimony about this issue was vague
and confusing, and I find that the Tenant did not prove this allegation on a
balance of probabilities.
 
15.  The
Tenant did not seek any financial remedy or compensation for the harassment by
the Landlord.  He asked only that the Landlord be ordered to stop harassing the
Tenant.  That order is appropriate and justified on the evidence before me.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is ordered that:

L2 application
 
1.     
The Tenant shall pay the full monthly rent for February, 2018 on
or before February 7, 2018 and shall pay the full monthly rent no later than
the first business day of each month for the period from March, 2018 to
February, 2019, both inclusive.
 
2.      The
Landlord shall provide to the Tenant banking information that will allow the
Tenant to pay the rent by direct deposit to the Landlord’s bank account.
 
3.      If
the Tenant fails to make any of the payments in accordance with paragraph 1 of
this Order, the Landlord may, without further notice to the Tenant, apply
within 30 days to the Board pursuant to section 78 of the Act for an
order terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenant.
T2
application
4.      The
Landlord must refrain from harassing any tenant in the residential complex. 
Without limitation, the Landlord shall not request, demand, pressure or coerce
any tenant in the residential complex to pay more than the legal rent except in
accordance with the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006.
 
January 26, 2018                                                            _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Neil
Kaufman
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East, Suite 700, 7th Floor
Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or
toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

