Metadata:
Date:	2019-11-15
File number:	
TSL-08918-19
	TSL-08918-19
Citation:	TSL-08918-19 (Re), 2019 CanLII 134454 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/j6vbp>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/j6vbp
Content:


Order under Section
78(6)
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: TSL-08918-19
 











 
 
 

S T and Rs P (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to
terminate the tenancy and evict M T-R and S R (the 'Tenants') because the
Tenants failed to meet a condition specified in the mediated settlement issued
by the Board on August 14, 2019 with respect to application TSL-06047-19.
 
This application was heard in Toronto on November 7,
2019.
 
The Landlord S T, the Landlords’
representative P R, and the Tenants attended the hearing.
 
Reasons:
1.   
The Landlord applies to terminate the tenancy
because the Tenants breached a mediated agreement which required them to pay
rent by the fifth day of each month, and to permit potential buyers to view the
unit.
2.   
For the reasons that follow, I am satisfied that
the Tenants breached the mediated agreement.  I have considered all the
circumstances, and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief from
eviction pursuant to section 83 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006,
SO 2006, c 17 (the 'RTA') provided that they comply with the agreement going
forward.
3.   
The Landlord has other, much more serious,
complaints about the Tenants’ conduct.  However, as those complaints have
nothing to do with the issues raised in this application, I do not find them to
be a reason to refuse relief from eviction.
Facts
4.   
The Landlord originally applied to evict the
Tenants for two reasons.  First, she alleged that the Tenants had been
persistently paying the rent late.  Second, she alleged that on May 1, 2019,
one of the Tenants had forced his way into another unit, harassed the occupant
of that unit and the Landlord’s electrician who was working in the unit, and
harassed the Landlord.  She alleged that the Tenant had engaged in similar
conduct in the past.
5.   
The application was before the Board on August 14,
2019 and was resolved by way of a mediated agreement.  The agreement provides
that the Tenants must pay their rent by the fifth day of each month.  It also
provides that the Tenants must not prevent the Landlord, her realtors, and
potential buyers from viewing the unit on 24 hours’ written notice.
6.   
The agreement is unusual in three ways: it
permits the Tenants to pay their rent four days late; it does not address any
of the conduct that was complained of in the original application (harassment
and trespassing); and it addresses conduct that was not complained of in the
original application (interference with potential buyers’ entry to the unit).
7.   
After the agreement was made, the Landlord’s
realtor started serving 24 hours’ notices of entry by putting them under the
Tenants’ door.  The Tenants permitted entry pursuant to those notices.
8.   
However, on August 18, the realtor served a
notice of entry for August 19 by posting it on the unit’s door.  The Tenants
say that they did not receive the notice.  They also say that even if they had
received it, they would not have permitted entry, because they believed it had
not been validly served.  When the realtor and potential buyer attended on
August 19, the Tenants did not allow them to enter.
9.   
The Landlord filed the present application to
terminate the tenancy on the basis that the denial of entry on August 19 was a
breach of the mediated agreement.
10.
Unfortunately, the August 19 visit was to be a
final inspection by a buyer pursuant to a conditional agreement of purchase and
sale (APS).  The Landlord says that because of the Tenants’ conduct on August
19, the buyer decided not to purchase the building and the sale fell through.
11.
The Landlord continued to try to sell the
building, and the Tenants complied with subsequent notices of entry served
under their door.  A new APS has now been signed with a new buyer.  The
Landlord says that it is a condition of the sale that the Tenants’ unit must be
vacant.  She testified that the buyer insisted on that condition because, due
to the Tenants’ conduct, the buyer does not want to assume their tenancy.
12.
Meanwhile, because she had applied to terminate
the tenancy, the Landlord believed that the mediated agreement was no longer in
effect and that the Tenants’ rent was once again due on the first day of each
month.  When she did not receive the rent by September 1, she served an N4
notice to terminate the tenancy for rent arrears.  Having received that notice,
the Tenants stopped paying the rent.
Analysis
13.
Although the Tenants are correct that most
documents cannot be served by posting them on a unit’s door, Rule 3.2 provides
that a notice of entry, specifically, can be served in that manner.  The
Tenants do not seem to have been aware of Rule 3.2, which is understandable
since the Rule is an exception to the usual rules governing service of
documents under the RTA.  
14.
On the evidence before me, I am satisfied that the
realtor properly served a notice of entry for August 19.  It follows that the
Tenants’ refusal of entry was a breach of the mediated agreement.  
15.
The breach occurred either because the Tenants
did not receive the notice of entry, or more likely, because they mistakenly believed
the notice to have been improperly served.  This was a simple mistake, easily
corrected.  It would not be fair to terminate the tenancy for that reason.  The
Tenants have, otherwise, complied with the agreement to allow entries with
proper notice.
16.
The Tenants have also breached the mediated
agreement by failing to pay their September, October, and November rent by the
fifth day of each month.  Those breaches are understandable given that the
Landlord had taken the position, erroneously, that the agreement was no longer
in effect and that the Tenants had already failed to pay their rent by
September 1.  In the circumstances, it would be fair to continue the tenancy
provided that the Tenants now pay all their outstanding rent.
17.
The more serious issue in this case is that, if
the tenancy is not terminated, the Landlord’s sale of the property may fall
through because the Landlord will not be able to provide vacant possession of
the unit to the seller.
18.
I am not persuaded that it would be fair to
terminate the tenancy in order to facilitate the sale of the property.  It was
improvident of the Landlord to promise the buyer that she would provide vacant
possession of the unit.  She should not have assumed that her application to
end the tenancy would be successful.
19.
The Tenants are alleged to have engaged in some
egregious conduct towards the Landlord, the Landlord’s electrician, and other
tenants.  However, those allegations are not the subject of this proceeding. 
The Landlord originally applied to terminate the tenancy because of those
allegations, but she opted to settle that application.  The present application
seeks to terminate the tenancy, not because of harassment or trespassing, but
because of one mistaken refusal of entry and three late rent payments.
20.
While I sympathize with the Landlord’s
circumstances, I must decide the application before me.  The issues that are
before me can be easily resolved.  Accordingly, in all the circumstances I find
that it would not be unfair to refuse eviction pursuant to section 83 of the
RTA, provided that the Tenants comply with the conditions set out below.  
It is ordered that:
 
1.   
The mediated agreement remains in effect.
2.   
On or before November 26, 2019, the Tenants
shall pay the Landlord all outstanding rent owing.
3.   
If the Tenants fail to make the payment, the
Landlord may, within 30 days and without notice to the Tenants, apply under
section 78 of the RTA for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the
Tenants.
 
November 15, 2019                                                        _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Dale
Whitmore
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor
Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

