Metadata:
Date:	2019-11-19
File number:	
TSL-99380-18-RV
	TSL-99380-18-RV
Citation:	TSL-99380-18-RV (Re), 2019 CanLII 134556 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/j6w12>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/j6w12
Content:


Order under Section 21.2 of the 
Statutory Powers Procedure Act 
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TSL-99380-18-RV
 










 
 

Review Order
 
 
A
R (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict M. D
K (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or
someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has substantially
interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest
of the Landlord or another tenant; and wilfully or negligently caused undue
damage to the premises. The Landlord has also applied for an order requiring
the Tenant to compensate the Landlord for the damage. The Landlord also claimed
compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination
date.
 
This
application was resolved by order TSL-99380-18 issued on June 24, 2019.
 
On July 11, 2019, the Tenant requested a review of the order and
that the order be stayed until the request to review the order is resolved.
 
On July 12, 2019 interim order TSL-99380-18-IN was issued, staying
the order issued on June 24, 2019.
 
The request was heard in Toronto on September 5, 2019.
 
The Landlord; the Landlord’s legal representative, N C; and the
Tenant attended the hearing. 
 
Determinations:
 
Tenant’s request for adjournments denied

1.    Throughout
the hearing block, including during the hearing, the Tenant requested an
adjournment. The Tenant made these requests because she wanted time to have
legal representation and she was not feeling well. However, the Tenant did not
satisfy me that she took reasonable (or any) steps to find legal representation
prior to the hearing. The Tenant did not have proof that she approached a lawyer
or paralegal to represent her or that she retained a representative and that
individual was not available to attend the hearing. 
 
2.    The
Tenant also did not have sufficient medical documentation to establish that she
was unable to participate in the hearing. The Tenant relied on a letter from
Dr. J T dated February 19, 2019. The Tenant submitted this letter during the
original hearing of this matter. The letter states that the Tenant “has been
diagnosed in the past (Since 2012) by Dr. R B with substantial environmental
hypersensitivities of Multiple Chemical Sensitivities (MCS)/Electromagnetic field
and radiation hypersensitivity [EHS]”. The letter further states that Dr. T is
referring the Tenant to a clinic for a complete assessment of the Tenant’s
hypersensitivities, which was anticipated to take at least 18 months. The
letter further states that the Tenant “cannot attend the Landlord and Tenant
Board Hearings on Wed February 27, 2019 and in the future, until we better
understand her disabilities and the accommodations needed to attend”. 
 
3.    At
the review hearing, the Landlord submitted an email from Dr. T which states
that Dr. T had prepared her letter based on a diagnosis of the Tenant performed
by another doctor, Dr. R B. Ultimately, I did not have any direct evidence from
Dr. B before me about the Tenant’s condition. I place little weight on Dr. T’s
letter because I am not convinced that she has direct, reliable knowledge of
the Tenant’s condition and any barriers it may present for the Tenant’s
participation in the review hearing. I note that the Tenant also did not
provide a reasonable explanation for why she did not request to participate in
the review hearing by telephone as she did for the original hearing on February
27, 2019.
 
4.    Without
any concrete documentation before me to corroborate either reason for the
Tenant’s adjournment request, I denied the adjournment and proceeded to hear
the request for review. 
The request for review
The
order contains a serious error
5.    The
order contains a single serious error. Paragraph two of the order requires the
Tenant to pay the Landlord $7,077.34 in compensation for use of the unit from
November 1, 2018 to June 24, 2019. However, no evidence was presented at the
hearing about the status of the Tenant’s rent account and whether the Tenant
owes the Landlord arrear   s of rent. In addition, the Landlord confirmed that
the Tenant is up to date in her rent. Therefore, I find that the order
incorrectly includes a remedy without any evidence or submissions having been
presented or heard in support of it. Accordingly, the order is amended to
remove paragraph two of the order. 
 
No
other serious errors in the order or the proceedings 
 
6.    At
the review hearing, I asked the Tenant to clarify the basis for her request for
review. The reasons for the Tenant’s request for review can be summarized as
follows: 
 
•        
A general disagreement with the Member’s
determinations. 
 
•        
The Member failed to consider certain
evidence, for example she did not hear Dr. B’s testimony. 
 
•        
The Member did not consider the letters the
Tenant submitted from Dr. Thompson. 
 
a)    Tenant’s
disagreement with the Member’s findings
 
7.    The
Tenant went through the order and explained that she disagreed with each
paragraph or determination. For example, the Tenant disagreed with the
following paragraphs in the determinations portion of the order: 
 
•        
Paragraph 2 – the Tenant took issue with the
following wording “..the Landlord receiving complaints from other tenants in
the complex that they were smelling foul odours coming from the Tenant’s unit”.
The Tenant argued that there were no foul odours coming from her unit; just the
normal parts of being a human being. 
 
•        
Paragraph 6 – the Tenant took issue with the
following wording “on September 1, 2018 the Landlord attended the unit and
found the unit to be in even worse condition”. The Tenant argued that she had
done a lot to improve the condition of the rental unit that day and she does
not accept that the state of the unit could be worst than the original
inspection. 
 
•        
Paragraph 7 – the Tenant disagreed with the
Member’s summary of the evidence that another tenant witnessed the Tenant loading
a propane tank into a taxi on September 1, 2018 and that the Tenant appeared to
be in good health. 
 
8.    However,
the review process is not an appeal process, nor is it simply an opportunity
for a party to reargue their case in the hope of a more favourable result. The
mere fact that the Tenant disagrees with the Member’s findings does not mean
that there was a serious error in the order or the proceedings. The Member’s
determinations are based upon the evidence and submissions presented at the
hearing. I find the Member’s determinations reasonable and there is no basis
for interfering in them. 
 
b)    Evidence
not considered by the Member
 
9.    The
Tenant argued that the Member failed to consider certain evidence at the
hearing on February 27, 2019; specifically, the testimony of Dr. B, evidence of
mould in the rental unit; the fact that another resident complimented the
plants she put outside the residential complex.
 
10. However,
I have listened to the audio recording of the original hearing and neither the
Tenant nor the Tenant’s legal representative attempted to introduce any of this
evidence. The Tenant did not provide a reasonable explanation for failing to
introduce this evidence, particularly since it was available at the time of the
original hearing and the Tenant was aptly represented. Therefore, I do not find
that it was a serious error for the Member not to include this evidence in her
order when the evidence was not before her.
 
c)    Dr.
T’s letters 
 
11. The
Tenant argued that the Member erred by failing to consider Dr. T’s letters
dated November 6, 2018 and February 19, 2019 as part of her consideration of
whether relief from eviction should be granted under section 83 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006. Dr. T’s letter from November 2018 states that the
Tenant must live in the rental unit as long as she requires it. However, I am
not satisfied that the Member’s failure to rely on Dr. T’s letters was a
serious error. As I explained above in the context of the Tenant’s adjournment
requests, Dr. T does not appear to have properly assessed and diagnosed the
Tenant with any medical conditions. Therefore, I find that Dr. T was not in the
best position to provide information about the Tenant’s condition and any
accommodation she requires. Dr. T did not participate in the hearing, so her
evidence was hearsay and it was not subject to cross-examination. Further, the
Tenant did not submit any evidence from Dr. B who is the doctor with the most
direct knowledge of the Tenant’s health and whose findings form the basis of
Dr. T’s letters. In short, I do not find it unreasonable that the Member would
place little or no weight on Dr. T’s letters. 
It is ordered that:
 
1.      The
request to review order TSL-99380-18 issued on June 24, 2019 is granted in part.

 
2.      Order
TSL-99380-18 is varied by cancelling paragraph two which states, “The Tenant
shall pay to the Landlord $7,077.34, which represents compensation for the use
of the unit from November 1, 2018 to June 24, 2019, less the rent deposit and
interest the Landlord owes on the rent deposit”. 
 
3.      Order
TSL-99380-18 is otherwise confirmed and unchanged.
 
4.      The
interim order issued on July 12, 2019 is cancelled. The stay of order
TSL-99380-18 is lifted.
 
November 19, 2019                                                        _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Anna
Solomon 
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor
Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or
toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
 

