Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-15
File number:	
CEL-02623-21

Citation:	Phillips v Sheffield, 2022 CanLII 100197 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jspn6>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-02623-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


BASEMENT APT, 270
JOHN STREET STAYNER ON
  L0M1S0


 




Between:


Sarah Phillips Douglas A Phillips


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Leonard Sheffield


Tenant



 
 
 
Sarah Phillips and Douglas A
Phillips (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Leonard
Sheffield (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant
or another occupant
of the rental unit has
committed an illegal act or has carried out, or permitted someone to carry out
an illegal trade, business or occupation in the rental unit or the residential
complex involving the production of an illegal drug, the trafficking in an illegal
drug or the possession of an illegal drug for the purposes of trafficking.
 
This application was heard by video/teleconference on January 6, 2022.
 
The Landlords and the Tenant attended
the hearing. Kelly Taggart,
a neighbour, gave evidence
on behalf of the Landlords.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
On August 31, 2021, the Landlords
served the Tenant a Notice of Termination (N6 Notice) because the Tenant
committed an illegal
act or carried out, or permitted someone to carry out an illegal trade,
business or occupation in the rental unit or the residential complex involving
the production of an illegal drug, the trafficking in an illegal drug or the
possession of an illegal drug for the purposes of trafficking. The
termination date set out on the notice was September 10, 2021.
 
2.     The Tenant submitted that the Notice of Termination
provided insufficient detail for him to be able to defend the application.
 
3.    
The Notice of Termination states
that the Tenant “was escorted from the rental unit by police on August 31, 2021
at 11:25 a.m. and the Landlords were notified by an attending officer that the
Tenant had been arrested for the possession of drugs”. The Notice of
Termination further states that between May and August 31, 2021 “the Tenant and
various friends have been observed
by multiple witnesses
exchanging small baggies
with




 
people who had stopped
at the rental unit The police were notified by several of the
witnesses and a file was opened with the crime unit”.
 
4.    
The difficulty with the Landlord’s
N6 Notice is that the notice fails to properly identify the illegal act or
illegal business allegedly committed or carried on in the rental unit and fails
to provide details as required
by section 43(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).
 
5.     First, the Landlords incorrectly identified the alleged illegal
act. The Landlords served the Tenant the Notice of Termination because the Tenant
committed an illegal act or was carrying on an
illegal business at the residential complex involving trafficking in an illegal drug or possession of an illegal drug for the
purposes of trafficking (Reason 1 on the Notice of Termination). This Notice of Termination requires
that the Landlords serves the Notice of Termination 10 days before the termination date
set out on the Notice, as the Landlords did.
 
6.    
The problem is that the Notice of
Termination served on the Tenant does not state that the Tenant had been arrested
for possession of drugs for the purposes
of trafficking, but for possession of drugs. This is a
lesser crime and a Notice of Termination based on possession of illegal drugs would require the Landlords
to serve it on the Tenant at least
20 days before the termination date set out on the Notice of Termination.
 
7.     Second, the Notice of Termination served by the
Landlords does not indicate the specific dates of the alleged illegal conduct.
 
8.    
The Ontario Divisional Court in Ball
v. Metro Capital Property and Lockhurst (December 19, 2002), Toronto Docket No. 8/02, found that
subsection 43(2) of the Act requires
that a notice served upon a tenant must include dates and times of the alleged offensive conduct with a detailed description of the alleged conduct
engaged in by the tenant.
 
9.    
In other words, the Notice of
Termination must identify the specific acts and when they occurred, who did
them and when. Stating that that the illegal activity occurred between May and
August 2021 does not provide sufficient detail.
 
10.  While August 31, 2021 is identified as the day the police
arrested the Tenant
for possession of drugs,
the notice does not allege
that the Tenant
was in possession of an illegal drug for
the purposes of trafficking.
 
11.  In the result, I
am of the view that the Notice of
Termination is defective, as it incorrectly
identifies the illegal act and it also lacks sufficient detail
for the Tenant
to know the case against him.
 
12.  The Landlords cannot
seek termination of the tenancy
based on a defective Notice
of Termination. As such, the Landlords’ application shall be dismissed.




 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlords’ application is dismissed.
 
 
 
 
February 15, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Jana Rozehnal
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy,
5th Floor Mississauga ON
L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

