Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-17
File number:	
CEL-01193-21

Citation:	Weck v Aldebert, 2022 CanLII 61484 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jqg23>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-01193-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


80 BRIGHTON ROAD BARRIE ON L4M6S3


 




Between:


Jason Weck
  Kristie Weck


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Jody
  Aldebert


Tenant



 
 
 
Jason Weck and
Kristie Weck (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy
and evict Jody Aldebert (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of
the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest of the Landlords or another tenant; and because the
Tenant has been persistently late in paying the Tenant's rent. The Landlords
also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date but the issue of
arrears of rent has already been addressed by Board Order CEL-99256-21.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 14, 2021.
The Landlords and the Tenant
attended the hearing. The Landlord was represented by Allison MacSporran.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
Based on the evidence
before me I find that the Tenant persistently failed to pay rent on the date it was due and substantially interfered with the lawful
right, privilege or interest of the Landlord by failing to pay her
Water Bill as required by her lease. In light of all of the circumstances I am
granting the Tenant an opportunity to preserve this tenancy if she complies
with the conditions set out below.
 
2.    
The lawful
monthly rent is
$1,800.00.
 
3.    
It was undisputed that the Tenant is responsible for paying all utilities, including
the water bill in accordance
with s. 7b of the lease.
 
Persistent late
payment
 
4.    
As per the Landlord’s
notice of termination (‘N8’) the Tenant paid her rent late 9 out of 15 months
between April 2020 and June, 2021. On
these occasions the Tenant failed to pay her
rent in full and on or before
the first of each corresponding month. The Landlords then




 
served her with
the N8 notice on July 2, 2021. The Tenant did not seriously dispute or
undermine this evidence but explained
why some of the payments
were late and pointed
out that she paid on or be fore the 2nd of the month on many occasions. The Landlord also presented evidence
that the Tenant paid her rent late on a few occasions prior to Covid-19. The Tenant
has paid on time since receiving the N8 but the Landlord argues that this is
only because she was ordered to do so in CEL-99256-21.
 
5.    
I find that the Tenant had persistently failed
to pay rent on the day it was due when the Landlord served her with an N8 notice
of termination.
 
Substantial interference
 
6.    
The Landlords testified
that the Tenant failed to pay her Water Bill contrary to clause 7.b of their
lease agreement and submitted a copy of said lease. The Landlords submitted
into evidence multiple notices they received from the City of Barrie advising the Landlords
that the Water Bill was in arrears and a final notice that advised the Landlord
that the water service would be shut off in the event of non-payment.
 
7.    
On May 5, 2021 the Landlords served the Tenant with a notice of termination N5 alleging
that the Tenant had substantially interfered with their lawful rights,
privileges, or interest and that she had 7 days to remedy the issue. The N5
notice clearly advised the Tenant that the issue was the unpaid water bill. As
of May 6, 2021 the amount owing was
$1,691.93.
 
8.    
The Tenant
did not dispute
that this amount
was owing nor did she dispute that she did not pay it back in full within the
7-day voiding period. I therefore find that the Tenant substantially interfered
with the Landlords’ lawful rights, privilege or interest within the meaning of
s. 64 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) and that the Tenant did not void the notice of
termination under s. 64(3) of the Act.
 
9.    
As of the date of the
hearing the Water Bill was still not paid in full but the Tenant had made
substantial progress in paying it off. No documentary evidence was provided by
either party to confirm the exact amount outstanding as of October 14, 2021 but
the parties provided a few numbers
ranging from $286 to approximately $800 based on their
conversations with the City of Barrie officials. I prefer the Tenant’s more
detailed and precise testimony regarding the amount owing and accept her
evidence that she owed
$286.36 as of the date of the hearing
and that another
payment of $255.44 would
be due on or before November
14, 2021.
 
10.  The Tenant explained that she did not pay
the Water Bill on time because she was struggling financially and that she
believed that water would not be shut off for non- payment during
Covid-19. As she believed she had to prioritize some payments over others, she chose to temporarily not
pay her Water Bill.
 
Relief from eviction
 
11.  The Landlords objected
to any relief from eviction
and requested that this tenancy
be terminated. The Landlords’ evidence was that it was stressful for
them to not know




 
whether a
payment would come on the first, to have to chase the Tenant for payment, and
to receive notices for non-payment of utility bills. The Landlords also
submitted that the issues started prior to Covid-19 and as such the Tenant
should not be given much leniency. The Landlord’s representative provided some Board decisions in support of this
request but they are not binding on me and the factual basis for these
decisions is sufficiently different that I do not find them persuasive or
helpful in these circumstances.
 
12.  The Tenant requested that the application
be dismissed because she mostly paid on time,
because she was almost caught up on the utility
bill, and because
there were some issues with the rental unit. Based on
the Tenant’s summary of these issues I do not find that these issues would
warrant mandatory relief from eviction under s. 83(3) of the Act. The Tenant
also advised that she spoke to duty counsel about filing a T6 and/or a T2
application to address these issues.
I will therefore not address these issues any further.
 
13.  As I find that the Landlords proved
the validity of both of their notices
of termination, I will
not dismiss this application.
 
14.  In the alternative the Tenant requested
conditional relief from eviction allowing
her to pay rent in full and on time as it comes due and allowing her to
pay off the amount owing for utilities by November 14, 2021.
 
15.  The Tenant testified
that she took care of 4 children,
two of them on a full-time basis. Her
youngest child was 13-month old as of the date of the hearing and one of her
children has special needs.
 
16.  The Tenant testified
that some of her late payments were inadvertent as she didn’t realize
that her paycheque would be subject to a hold at the bank.
 
17.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief
from eviction subject to the
condition(s) set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1)
of the Act.
 
18.  The amount owing for the Water Bill is
relatively small and the late payments were often only late by a few days. She
has also demonstrated good faith in trying to preserve this tenancy by paying her rent in full and on time after July 2021 and by steadily
reducing the amount owing for
the Water Bill. While it would appear that the Tenant’s decision to not pay her Water Bill was deliberate, which is concerning, her circumstances are such that it
would not be unfair to give her an opportunity to preserve this tenancy
provided that she pays her rent in
full and on time going forward and pays off all of the amounts owing for the
water. The Tenant will have until
the end of the month to comply if she hasn’t already done so.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlords’ application to terminate the tenancy for persistent late payments and for
unpaid utilities is denied, subject to the following conditions:




 
a)     On or before
January 31, 2022,
the Tenant shall ensure that any charges
owing on the water account
are paid and that the account is brought to good standing; and
b)     For a 12-month period
starting February 1, 2022 and ending January
1, 2023 the Tenant shall pay her rent in full and on or before the 1st of each corresponding month.
 
2.    
In the event that the
Tenant fails to comply with any of the terms of paragraph 1 of this order, the Landlords shall be entitled
to apply to the Board, no later than 30 days after a
breach of this order, without notice to the Tenant, for an order terminating
the tenancy and evicting the Tenant pursuant to Section 78 of the Act.
 
3.    
The Tenant
shall also pay to the Landlords $186.00
for the cost of filing
the application.
 
4.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlords
the full amount
owing on or before January
28, 2022, the Tenant will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from January 29, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
January 17, 2022                                                                                                                                                 Date Issued                                                                      Vladimir Nikitin
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

