Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-07
File number:	
CEL-95802-20

Citation:	Somal v Rehal, 2022 CanLII 88008 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js3nb>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-95802-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


UPPER/MAIN LEVEL,
32 MADOC DRIVE BRAMPTON ON L6V1Z9


 




Between:


Lakhwinder S. Somal Iqbaljit Aujla


Landlords




 


and


 




 


Paramjit Singh Rehal


Tenant



 
 
 
Lakhwinder   S
Somal and Iqbaljit Aujla (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict Paramjit Singh Rehal (the 'Tenant') because
the Landlord requires
possession of the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation.
The Landlords also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the
unit after the termination date.
 
This application was resolved by order CEL-95802-20 issued on May 10, 2021. On May 19, 2021 the Landlord
requested a review of the order.
This request was heard by
videoconference on October
1, 2021.
 
The Landlords and the Landlord's Legal Representative, Shalini Puri, attended the hearing.
As of 10:54 a.m., the Tenant
was not present or represented at the hearing although properly served with notice
of this hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Landlord requested a review of the order alleging
a serious error in the order or process, specifically, section 83(3) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) cannot be used to deny eviction when good faith is established and denying eviction
was an unreasonable use of discretion.
 
2.     The Landlord’s request
for review is granted for the reasons
that follow.
 
3.     At the hearing
the Landlord's Legal
Representative advised that the Landlord
was not pursuing the first
ground for review with respect to section 83(3) of the Act.
 
4.     The Landlord's Legal Representative submitted
that the order contains little
evidence with respect to the
prejudice to the Tenant; the only reason given by the Tenant was that this was
a 5-year tenancy and the Tenant anticipates difficulties in securing alternate




 
accommodations at this time. The order
does not say what circumstances make it difficult for the Tenant to find new
accommodations and does not set out what steps the Tenant has taken since the
N12 was served. Denying eviction based on such little evidence is not right, it
is an unreasonable use of discretion. A reasonable use of discretion would have
been delaying the eviction, not denying it.
 
5.     The Landlord's Legal Representative also submitted
that the Landlord, Lakhwinder S. Somal (LS), testified at hearing about why he, Iqbaljit Aujla
(IA), and their
2 children need to move into the rent unit: the rental unit is across the street from
their children’s school and is close to IA’s place of work; their current home
is an hour away from IA’s place of work; IA had to get a modified work schedule
to accommodate getting the children to school and this accommodation ends April
30, 2021.
 
6.    
LS testified that they
own the house they are currently
living in and are unsure once
they move whether they will be selling or renting it out. They want to move
into the rental unit for the same reasons as testified to at the last hearing.
It is closer to IA’s work and the children’s school; the children will be
attending in person-schooling but cannot be registered for this util they live in the school district. The rental unit is a 3-bedroom house that the Tenant, a single person, is
occupying all himself.
 
7.     In closing the Landlord's Legal Representative
submitted that LS’s testimony was not disputed
at the initial hearing and the previous
order lacks details;
there was no evidence
at the last hearing, or in the order, why the Tenant needs to stay in the areas or specifics
with respect to difficulties h was encountering. Based on all of this, the
review should be granted, and termination granted with a 2-month delay of
termination as an accommodation under section 83 to give the Tenant time to
move.
 
Analysis
 
8.     At the initial
hearing the member found the Landlords in good faith required the rental unit for residential occupation and that
the test under section 48 had been met, including the filing of the affidavit
and the compensation cheque.
 
9.     Paragraph 11 and 12
say that having considered
all the circumstances a “denial
of the Landlords’ application
will not significantly affect their lives having moved into their current
residence about a year ago without any consideration for the distance to their
work or son’s school”. The member finds the “opposite is the case for the Tenant
who would have to seek alternate accommodation during a pandemic after five years
in the rental unit and will
likely be faced with increased rent”.
 
10.  The member’s considerations are validly raised;
however, I accept
the Landlord's Legal Representative’s submission that
these considerations point towards a reason for delaying the eviction as
opposed to denying it.
 
11.  The member’s reasoning appears to be that ‘convenience’ for the Landlords
moving into the rental unit is
outweighed by the “Tenant’s interest in preserving a long-standing tenancy
during a pandemic”. This does not address that IA’s work accommodation was




 
only temporary or that the children
would be attending
in-person schooling once it opened up. The considerations with
respect to the Landlords are temporary in nature yet the
Tenant’s consideration of having
to find new housing ‘during a pandemic’ is treated as permanent. Without
evidence demonstrating why the Tenant’s difficulties finding new housing during
COVID-19, even though it is a 5-year tenancy, should be considered as a
continuing and permanent problem, these ‘difficulties’ are more approximately directed as a valid
consideration for delaying the eviction, not denying it. Therefore, I find
there was insufficient evidence before the Board to support its conclusions.
 
12.  For all of the above
reasons, the Landlord’s request to review
is granted.
 
13.  Pursuant to Rule 26.15, the re-hearing of the matter
is limited to section 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’)
with respect to postponing eviction as the member found at the initial hearing
that all the grounds under section 48 were met and
the Landlords’ in good faith intended to occupy the residential unit.
 
Re-hearing
 
14.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to postpone the
eviction until March 31 2022 pursuant to subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act. I
accept the Landlord's Legal Representative’s submission for a 2-month delay is
reasonable, however, taking into account the time from the review hearing to
the writing of this order I find delaying 51 days is more appropriate because
of this delay.
 
15.  The Landlord's Legal Representative submitted
that a delay of 2-months
would be a reasonable amount of time for the
Tenant to find new housing.
 
16.  The Tenant did not attend the review hearing,
therefore there are no further considerations before me with respect to the
amount of time or other circumstance that affect the Tenant. Further, the
Notice of Hearing clearly sets out that if the tenant does not attend
the hearing or send a representative the Board “may hold the hearing
without you and make a decision based on only the landlord’s evidence”.
 
17.  This order contains
all the reasons for the decision within
it. No further reasons shall be
issued.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The request for review order
CEL-95802-20 dated May 10, 2021 is granted
and varied as follows.
 
2.    
The interim order issued
June 30, 2021is
cancelled.
 
3.     The tenancy between
the Landlords and Tenant is terminated March
31, 2022. The Tenant must move out of the rental
unit on or before Mach 31, 2022.




 
4.    
If the unit is not vacated
on or before March 31, 2022, then starting April 1, 2022, the
Landlords may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so
that the eviction may be enforced.
5.     Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlords on or after April 1, 2022.
 
 
February 7, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Diane Wade
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section
81 of the Act, the part
of this order relating to the eviction
expires on September 8, 2022
if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental
unit is located.

