Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-31
File number:	
CEL-03213-21

Citation:	Peel Housing Corporation v Rehman, 2022 CanLII 82051 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrtz9>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-03213-21
 
 



In the
  matter of:


A007, 3280
SOUTH MILLWAY MISSISSAUGA ON
  L5L3H3


 




Between:


Peel Housing
Corporation O/a Peel
Living


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Faisal Fazal Rehman Farhath Rehman Sana Rehman


Tenants



 
 
 
Peel Housing Corporation O/a Peel
Living (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
Faisal Fazal Rehman, Farhath Rehman and Sana Rehman (the 'Tenants') because
they, another occupant of the rental unit or someone they permitted in the
residential complex have substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment
or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant.
The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenants remained in the unit
after the termination date.
 
This application was heard in Passcode:
956 0593 7653# on January
27, 2022. The Landlord’s
representative Eric Cheng, and the Tenants attended the hearing.
 
As testifying as witnesses for the Landlord
were Kuldip Bains, Tenant Support
Agent for the Landlord, and Dan Bursay, the
Landlord’s Property Manager.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     In 2015, the Landlord gave the Tenants
permission to install
a fence between
there home and their
neighbour’s home because of issues between the parties. When the approval was granted the Landlord’s Agent, Kuldip
Bains, sent an email to the Tenants outlining the conditions associated with
the fence. These conditions were in
place because the tenancy agreements include
a clause where tenants are not permitted
to install structures such as fences.
 
2.    
The four conditions included: no higher than 3 feet; the Tenants
would be responsible for the installation cost and
ongoing maintenance; the Tenants would be required to remove the fence upon move out; and the
Landlord had the right to request removal
of the fence at any time if there is
a problem.




File Number: CEL-03213-21
 
3.    
The Landlord’s notice required the
Tenants to remove the fence due to problems that have arisen with the
neighbour. Photographs of the fence show that the fence has been damaged. The Tenants testified that they have repaired the fence four
times due to the damage caused by their neighbours. Based on the testimony, photographs of the fence, the location of the fence, and the complaints by the neighbours about the fence,
I find on a balance of probabilities, that the damage caused to the
fence was the result of the actions of the Tenants’ neighbours or their guests.
 
4.     Based on the email outlining the conditions the
Tenants agreed to before installing the fence, and the resulting problems the
fence has caused, I find the fence is substantially interfering with the Landlord’s lawful right and privilege. The tenancy agreement does not permit tenants
to install fences
and the Landlord reserved the right to request the removal
of the fence.
 
5.     At the hearing
the parties agreed
that the Landlord
would remove the fence and that the Landlord would provide the Tenants
with one-week notice of the removal date.
 
6.     Under the circumstance I find it would be unfair to evict the Tenants and am therefore granting relief from eviction
under section 83 of the Residential Tenancies Act.
 
7.     The Landlord’s representative requested that the
Tenants pay the cost of the application. Considering the fact that I find it is
the neighbour who is causing the problem with the fence and the fact the Tenants
had permission from the Landlord
to install the fence, I will
not order the Tenants to pay this cost. The
Landlord’s representative was informed of this at the hearing.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord is authorized to remove the fence in question and shall provide
the Tenants with one-week
notice of the date of the removal.
 
 












 
January 31, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Greg Joy
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy,
5th Floor Mississauga ON
L4Z2G5
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

