Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-17
File number:	
CEL-01385-21

Citation:	Borg v Gordon, 2022 CanLII 70746 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jr8zq>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-01385-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


40 THORNBUSH BOULEVARD BRAMPTON ON L7A0K5


 




Between:


Joseph Borg Carmann
Borg


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Dwight Gordon Stephanie Gordon


Tenants



 
 
 
Joseph Borg and Carmann
Borg (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy
and evict Dwight Gordon and Stephanie Gordon (the 'Tenants') because the Landlord requires possession of the rental unit for
the purpose of residential occupation. The Landlords also claimed compensation for each day the Tenants
remained in the unit after
the termination date but this request was not pursued at
the hearing.
 
This application was heard by
videoconference on October
14, 2021. The Landlords
and the Tenants attended the
hearing. The Landlords were represented by Maria Shepherd.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     For the reasons
below I find that Joseph
Borg (‘JB’) in good faith
requires the rental
unit for the purpose of residential occupation and that the Landlords
compiled with all legislative requirements in
this application. Having considered
all of the circumstances I
find that it is not unfair to delay eviction until February 15, 2022.
 
Compensation
 
2.    
Section 48.1 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) requires a landlord to compensate a tenant in an amount equal to one month’s rent if the landlord, in good faith, requires the rental unit for the
purpose of residential occupation. Section 55.1 of the Act requires this compensation to take place no
later than on the termination date specified in the
notice of termination of the tenancy given
by the landlord. The termination date in this case was August 31, 2021.
 
3.    
The Landlords testified that they paid compensation to the Tenants
by e-transferring
$1,724.11 to the Tenants on
August 25, 2021. This was before the termination date and the amount
is equal to one month’s
rent. The Landlords also sent the Tenants a message




 
explaining that the e-transfer
was “compensation”. Some time after the termination date the Landlords received an automatic message from their bank advising that
the e-transfer was never accepted. While the Tenants
initially disputed this evidence, Stephanie Gordon eventually confirmed that she received but did not
deposit the e-transfer.
 
4.    
Based on the evidence adduced at
the hearing, I conclude that the Landlords paid the compensation required by
the Act to the Tenant in August 2021. The Tenants did not accept the payment. This does not, however, change
my finding that the Landlords
paid the required compensation to the Tenant in the form of e-transfer.
 
5.     As the e-transfer had expired and was not deposited as
of the date of the hearing, I directed the Landlords
to re-send the compensation to the Tenants.
They did so and the Tenants confirmed that they received
it before the hearing was concluded.
 
Good faith
 
6.    
JB testified that the Landlords are separating and he needs a place to live as a result. He testified that he has
exhausted his efforts to find an alternative place to live over 5 and a half months.
He testified that he will be residing
at the rental unit by himself for a period
of at least one year and that he has no intention to sell the rental
unit.
 
7.     The Tenants testified that they were paying well below
market rent and that they thought the Landlords may just want more money. On cross-examination The Tenants questioned JB about his motives, about
their requests to give them additional time to move, and about the other
notices the Landlords served on the Tenants. JB elaborated on his reasons for
moving and explained that a previous N12 had a fatal defect which led to
serving another one. He testified that due to separation he was running out of
funds, had to sell his vehicle and couldn’t afford to buy another place. His parents
were not prepared to accommodate him
and he has been staying with friends and family. He was residing in Orangeville
on the day of the hearing.
 
8.     In the leading
case law involving a landlord’s own use application, Salter v. Beljinac, 2001 CanLII 40231 (ON SCDC),
[2001], O.J. No. 2792 (Div. Ct.),
the Divisional Court
held that:
 
“the test of good faith is genuine intention
to occupy the premises and not the reasonableness of the landlord’s
proposal…”
 
9.     Thus, the Landlord
must establish that they genuinely intend to move into the unit. The Court also held in Salter v
Beljinac that the Landlords’ motives are “largely irrelevant’.
 
10.  I found JB’s testimony to be credible
and reliable and I accept his testimony that he
genuinely requires the rental unit for residential occupation. He was
forthcoming, consistent, and was not argumentative or evasive on
cross-examination.
 
11.  Based on all of the evidence submitted
by the parties I find that the Landlord proved that
it is more likely than not that he in good faith requires the rental unit for
the purposes of residential occupation.




 
Relief from eviction
 
12.  The Tenants wished to raise some issues about this
tenancy. The most serious of these issues was that the Tenants had to use a
2-burner stove. I do not find that the issues were such that they would warrant
mandatory relief from eviction under s. 83(3) of the Act. The Board lacks jurisdiction to address these issues in this application. The Tenants may
consider filing their own application(s).
 
13.  The Tenants requested that eviction be delayed by a
few months until “early next year”. Dwight Gordon testified that the Tenants
occupied the rental unit with their two adult children and his disabled
91-year-old mother. One of the children was at school,
the other had just started
working, and Stephanie Gordon was on disability. DG testified that it would take some time for their household to
find a suitable place for all of them with their limited income.
 
14.  The Landlords opposed
any relief from eviction. Their position was that JB was struggling himself, that the Tenants have
had ample notice about the Landlords’ intentions since June 2021.
 
15.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to postpone the
eviction until February 15, 2022 pursuant to subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act.
 
16.  This application is not based on any fault of the Tenants
and the Tenants
were entitled to test the Landlords’ case before the
Board instead of simply accepting the Landlords’ notice of termination. While I
am mindful of the Landlords’ circumstances, the Tenants’ circumstances are such
that it would be unfair to grant the Landlords’ request for a quick eviction in this no-fault
application.
 
17.  The Tenants will have approximately 4 months from the
date of the hearing and 1 month from the date of this order to find a new place
to live. At the hearing I advised the parties that this tenancy will be terminated
but reserved my decision regarding the exact date
by which the Tenants would have to move out. As the Tenants had advance notice,
I find that it is not unfair to give them a relatively short one-month delay
from the date of this order. This eviction
date grants the Tenants substantially all of the time they requested at the hearing.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The tenancy between
the Landlords and the
Tenants is terminated. The Tenants
must move out of the rental unit on or before February 15, 2022.
 
2.     If the unit is not vacated on or before
February 15, 2022, then starting February 16, 2022, the
Landlords may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so
that the eviction may be enforced.
 
3.     Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlords on or after February 16, 2022.




 
 
 
January 17, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Vladimir Nikitin
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of
the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires on August 15, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

