Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-10
File number:	
CEL-02757-21

Citation:	Victoria Park Management v Hannay, 2022 CanLII 55185 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpzf7>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-02757-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


60 STOKES ROAD BRAMPTON ON L6Y4V4


 




Between:


Victoria Park Management


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Kelly Hannay


Tenant



 
 
 
Victoria Park Management
(the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict
Kelly Hannay (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully or
negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The Landlord has also applied
for an order requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlord for the damage;
and because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone the
Tenant permitted in the residential complex has substantially interfered with
the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord
or another tenant. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the
Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on January 6, 2022.
 
Only the
Landlord's Legal Representative, Sara Lange, attended the hearing. As of 12:00
p.m., the Tenant was not present
or represented at the hearing
although properly served
with notice of this hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
For the reasons that follow I find that the Tenant has substantially interfered with the
Landlord's reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex and with a lawful
right, privilege or interest of the Landlord.
 
2.    
The application is based on a N5 notice of termination served to the Tenant on July 16, 2021. The termination date on the
notice was August 16, 2021. The notice set out that the Tenant substantially
interfered with the Landlord and caused damage to the rental unit by not
maintaining her yard, specifically not picking up her dog’s feces, and not
paying the affiliated charges for clean-up ordered by the City.
 
3.    
The Tenant is in possession
of the rental unit.




 
4.    
The monthly
rent is $218.00.
The Landlord is not holding
a last moth rent deposit.
 
5.    
The Landlord's Legal
Representative testified that the complex consists of townhomes, each having
their own small fenced yard. It has
been a longstanding issue with the Tenant not cleaning up her yard of dog
feces; the Tenant’s lease includes the yard area and
requires it be maintained in a good state. The lack of picking after
her dog causes a strong odour
that affects the neighbouring tenants.
 
6.    
The Representative also
testified that on May 27, 2021 the Landlord sent a letter to the Tenant
advising that By-law had sent a third warning about the yard needing to be
cleaned. The compliance date for the City was June 17, 2021, when the Tenant
did not comply, the Landlord
hired a contractor to do the clean-up.
The Landlord sent the Tenant a letter dated June 29, 2021
requesting payment of the invoiced amount by July 15, 2021. When the Tenant did
not respond, the Landlord served the N5 notice.
 
7.    
The invoice
from Poop Patrol
Canada Inc. dated June 29, 2021 in the amount
of $101.70 and the
aforementioned letters to the Tenant were entered into evidence.
 
8.    
The Landlord's Legal Representative submitted
that the Landlord’s intention was to mediate with the Tenant had she shown
for the hearing.
 
Analysis
 
9.    
Section 64 of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’)
states:
 
(1)   A landlord may give a tenant
notice of termination of the tenancy
if the conduct of the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a
person permitted in the residential complex by the tenant is such that it
substantially interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the residential
complex for all usual purposes by the landlord or another tenant or
substantially interferes with another lawful right, privilege or interest of
the landlord or another tenant.
 
(3) The notice
of termination under
subsection (1) is void if the tenant,
within seven days after
receiving the notice, stops the conduct or activity or corrects the omission.
 
10.  Here the uncontested evidence establishes that the Tenant
did not clean her yard of dog feces and as a result the Landlord had
to hire a contractor and paid $101.70.
 
11.  I find based on the uncontested evidence
and testimony before me that the Tenant not maintaining her yard, specifically
not picking up her dog’s feces, substantially interfered with the lawful right of the Landlord
as this behaviour is contrary
to her lease. The Tenant also substantially interfered with
the Landlord’s reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex when the
Landlord had to hire a company and incur charges to have the yard cleaned.




 
12. 
Section 62 of the Act
states:
 
(1)    
A landlord may give a
tenant notice of termination of the tenancy if the tenant, another occupant of
the rental unit or a person whom the tenant permits in the residential complex wilfully or negligently causes undue damage to the rental unit or the residential complex. 2006,
c. 17, s. 62 (1).
 
(2)    
A notice of termination under this section
shall,
(a)  
provide a termination
date not earlier than the 20th day after the notice is given;
(b)  
set out the grounds
for termination; and
(c)  
require the tenant, within
seven days,
(i) 
to repair
the damaged property
or pay to the landlord
the reasonable costs of
repairing the damaged property, or
(ii)      to replace the damaged property or pay to
the landlord the reasonable costs of replacing the damaged property, if it is
not reasonable to repair the damaged property.
 
(3)    
The notice of
termination under this section is void if the tenant, within seven days after receiving the notice, complies
with the requirement referred to in clause
(2) (c) or makes arrangements satisfactory to the landlord
to comply with that
requirement.
 
13.  Black’s Law Dictionary defines damage as:
 
Loss, injury,
or deterioration, caused
by the negligence, design, or accident of one
person to another, in respect of the latter’s person or property.
 
14.  The conduct being complained of here is that the Tenant did not maintain
her lawn to the
extent that By-law became involved due to the amount of dog feces. By-law
ordered the yard to be cleaned by June 17, 2021, when the Tenant did not
comply, the Landlord ordered a contractor to do the clean-up. The clean up cost
the Landlord $101.70.
 
15.  As the Representative did not give any testimony on what the specific damage
was, this part of the
application is dismissed.
 
16.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief
from eviction subject to the
condition(s) set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1)
of the Act. The Tenant deserves the chance to rectify
the situation in order to preserve her social housing.
 
17.  This order contains
all the reasons
for the decision within it. No further
reasons shall be issued.




 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s
application for eviction of the Tenant is denied on the condition that the
Tenant pay to the Landlord
the invoiced amount
of $101.70 on or before
February 11, 2022.
 
2.    
The Tenant
shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing the application.
 
3.    
The total amount the
Tenant owes the Landlord is $287.70. If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before
February 10, 2022, the Tenant will start
to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from February 11, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
4.    
If the Tenant does not
pay the amount from paragraph 3 by the required date, then starting February
11, 2022, the Landlord may file this order with the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced.
 
5.    
Upon receipt
of this order, the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after February 11, 2022.
 
6.    
If the Tenant pays the
full amount from paragraph 3 by the required date, then the tenancy is preserved on the condition
that the Tenant
shall, for the period of one year from the date the amount from
paragraph 3 is paid:
 
a)    
Substantially
interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex for all usual purposes by the landlord or another tenant or substantially interferes with another
lawful right, privilege or interest of the landlord
or another tenant.
b)    
Maintain her yard in good condition, specifically but not limited to keeping it free
of accumulated dog feces.
c)     
Not commit
any By-law infractions with respect to her yard.
 
7.    
If the Tenant fails to abide by any of the
conditions in paragraph 6, then
the Landlord may apply under
section 78 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) for an
order terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenant. The Landlord must make
the application within 30 days of a breach of a condition set out in paragraph
6 of this order.
 
 
January 10, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Diane
Wade
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.




 
 
 
In accordance
with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction
expires on August 10, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before
this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

