Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
CEL-81476-18-RV

Citation:	Badyal v Maina, 2022 CanLII 51386 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpsj8>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
21.2 of the
Statutory Powers Procedure
Act
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-81476-18-RV
 
 



In the
matter of:


TH-6, 180 HOWDEN
BOULEVARD BRAMPTON ON L6S0E6


 




Between:


Ravinder Singh Badyal


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Anthony C. Maina Sarah Wangari Kanyua


Tenants



 
 
Review Order
 
 
Ravinder Singh
Badyal (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
Sarah Wangari Kanyua and Anthony C. Maina (the 'Tenants') because the Tenants failed
to pay the rent the Tenants
owe and because they have been persistently late in paying their rent.
 
This application was resolved by order CEL-81476-18 issued on February
11, 2019.
 
On February
3, 2020, the second-named Tenant,
‘SK’, requested a review
of the order and that the
order be stayed until the request to review the order is resolved.
 
On February
6, 2020, interim
order CEL-81476-18-RV-IN was issued, staying
the order issued
on February 11, 2019.
 
The Tenants
say that the order contains
a serious error because the second-named Tenant is not
a properly named Tenant in this matter. Pursuant to the instructions contained in the interim
order issued on February 6, 2020, a review hearing was scheduled to
determine whether the second- named Tenant is a properly named Tenant in the
Landlord’s application.
 
The request
for review was heard via video conference on January 19, 2021, May 6, 2021,
and November 16, 2021.
 
The Landlord’s sister, Mandeep Kaur Phangura, the Landlord’s legal representative, Shalini
Puri, the Tenants and the second-named Tenant’s legal representative,
Dan Barnabic, attended the hearing. The first-named Tenant was unrepresented on
all three hearing dates but he did seek advice from Duty Counsel on at least
one hearing date.




 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Issue
 
1.    
As the first-named
Tenant, ‘AM’, was unrepresented at the hearing, there were essentially three
parties before me; the Landlord, AM who was unrepresented and the second-named Tenant,
‘SK’, who had legal representation. Both Tenants
say that SK is
not a properly named Tenant in this matter.
 
2.    
As the hearing unfolded
over three days, I made sure that every party had an opportunity to ask
questions of every witness. Once the third day of hearing ended, I instructed
the parties to submit their closing submissions by November 30, 2021. All three
parties adhered to my instructions and I have considered those
written submissions as part of my analysis.
 
3.    
I would also note that
the Landlord did not appear at the hearing, but his sister, ‘MP’, appeared along
with her legal representative. There is no dispute that MP acted as the
Landlord’s agent throughout the duration of the tenancy. She met with AM before
the tenancy began, she collected employment documents relating to the rental
application, she collected rent, she collected
utilities costs and she made efforts to enforce her rights
as a Landlord by serving notices of termination and filing applications before
the Board. For these reasons,
I find that MP is a “landlord” as defined by the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') and was properly before me in this matter.
 
The Review
Request
 
4.    
The Tenants’ request
for review is denied as I am satisfied both AM and SK are properly named as Tenants as set out in the written lease agreement between
the parties. For the
reasons that follow I find that SK and AM are not credible witnesses overall
and I do not find any of their testimony to be reliable. SK’s testimony was
inconsistent and not supported by the documentation before me; she also failed
to provide important documentary evidence available to her to support her
testimony. AM’s testimony was argumentative, inconsistent, and occasionally
incoherent. His testimony was also not supported by the documentary evidence
before me.
 
a)     SK’s Testimony
 
5.    
Over the course
of the three days of hearing, SK’s testimony was
inconsistent, frequently vague and it tended to evolve over time. For example,
at first SK said she was nothing more than AM’s “emergency contact”
for his job. Then SK said she was “friends” with AM. Finally,
after hours of testimony, SK said that she was in fact an investor in AM’s business and had been his business partner
for years, but she could not recall exactly when she became an investor or how
much money she invested in AM’s business. SK’s testimony on this particular
point was vague at the outset and SK only provided a few details when she was
pressed during questioning. For these reasons, I do not find SK’s testimony to
be credible as it relates to her relationship to AM.




 
6.    
SK’s testimony
regarding how AM acquired her personal information was equally vague and
inconsistent. SK says that AM sent her pay stub, her credit score and her ID to
the Landlord without SK’s permission. SK says that AM must have acquired these
three documents when she and AM were applying for a business loan. Although SK
was unable to remember precisely when she provided these documents to AM for
the loan application, she eventually said it was “likely sometime in 2016 or 2017”.
For the following reasons, I do not find SK’s
testimony regarding this exchange of personal documentation to be credible.
 
7.    
First, SK was unable to
provide any documentary evidence relating to her alleged business partnership
with AM or the alleged business loan the two attempted to obtain. SK was unable
to provide a contract for her investment in the business, she was unable to
provide any business documents at all, she was unable to provide a copy of the
loan application, or the loan refusal
document. SK was also unable
to remember precisely
how much money she allegedly invested in AM’s company, when she made the
investment or the terms and conditions of her investment. SK also could not
explain how much interest in the company she purchased with her investment or
how much profit she expected to make from her investment. In short, SK’s entire
testimony regarding her alleged business partnership with AM was completely
devoid of any detail and she failed to provide any documentary evidence to
support her testimony. For these reasons, I am not satisfied that SK gave AM her ID and employment
documentation as part of a business transaction.
 
8.    
Instead, I find it more
likely that SK gave these documents to AM specifically to submit to the
Landlord to help them qualify for the rental unit. I say this because the
Landlord submitted a screen shot of an email dated December 14, 2017, in which
SK sends her pay stub to AM and this is the same date that the lease agreement
was signed. I simply do not find it plausible that SK sent her pay stub to AM
on December 14th as part of an alleged business
loan application only to
have that same pay stub be sent to the Landlord
instead to qualify for the rental unit. For these reasons, I am not satisfied
that AM surreptitiously disclosed SK’s ID and employment information to the
Landlord without
SK’s knowledge.
 
9.    
The final aspect of
SK’s testimony that lacked credibility was her description of her interactions with the Landlord. There is no dispute
that SK and the Landlord exchanged numerous text messages
throughout the duration of the tenancy in 2018 and 2019. Topics include the
monthly rent, utility bills, and notices of termination. However, it was not
until April 2019 that SK sent a text message informing the Landlord that “I
have my own lease and I do not live in your property”. When asked why she
failed to inform the Landlord sooner that she was not living
at the rental unit and was
not a Tenant, SK said she informed the Landlord over the
phone. However, SK could not remember precisely when this phone call occurred and she failed to give details about what was said during this alleged phone call. For this
reason, I do not find SK’s testimony on this point to be credible and I am not satisfied that SK told the Landlord prior to April 2019 that she was not living at the rental unit.
 
10. 
For all of
these reasons, I do not
find SK’s testimony to be credible
overall. SK was not forthcoming with answers to questions, her answers were often vague and inconsistent




 
and some of her explanations were simply not plausible.
Based on the evidence before me, I find that SK has failed to establish that she was improperly named as a Tenant
in this matter.
 
b)      
SK’s Documentary Evidence
 
11. 
In addition to her
testimony lacking credibility, SK’s documentary evidence was also problematic.
The central point of SK’s testimony is that she says she did not live at the
rental unit at any point between the start
of the tenancy in January 2018 until the tenancy was terminated in December 2019.
Although SK provided the Board with some documentary evidence relating to this
point, I do not find that her three key documents support SK’s testimony that
she lived elsewhere during tenancy. The three documents SK relied upon the most
during the hearing are a picture of one page of a lease agreement, a picture of an alleged
“annual rent receipt”,
and her driver’s license. SK says that these documents confirm
that she never occupied
the rental unit and
she has always lived at another location, hereinafter referred to as the
“Normandy” address. I do not find that these documents support SK’s testimony
on this point.
 
12. 
First, there is no
dispute that the tenancy began on January 1, 2018, and ended in December 2019. However,
the single page SK submitted from the Normandy lease agreement shows a lease
term of June 1, 2011 to May 1, 2012. That term is well before the tenancy that
is the subject of this application so fails to establish anything about the
relevant period here. I would also note that SK failed to provide the entire
lease agreement for the Normandy tenancy and, for this reason, I do not find
this document to be persuasive and I do not find that this one page supports the position that SK
was living elsewhere during
the term of the tenancy.
 
13. 
The second document SK
submitted is a picture of an alleged annual rent receipt which says that SK
allegedly paid $6,108.00 in rent for the Normandy
address throughout 2019.
First, all documents are hearsay by definition and, as the landlord for the
Normandy address did not attend the hearing to answer questions about this
receipt, I give it little weight. Also, even though the landlord in the
Normandy tenancy is a community based affordable housing organization, this
receipt is not written on official letterhead, it is undated and is not signed
by the alleged landlord. Instead, the name “Joy Reid” is typed at the bottom of
the page and the organization’s name is typed below. All of these missing components suggests to me that
this is a fraudulent receipt and does not establish that SK lived
at the Normandy address in 2019 or paid rent to the social housing landlord during that year.
However, even if I am wrong and SK did live at the Normandy address in 2019, this
document still fails to establish that SK did not live at the rental unit
throughout 2018.
 
14. 
Finally, I find that
SK’s driver’s license fails to establish that she lived elsewhere during the
term of the tenancy before me. Although the driver’s license lists the Normandy
address, the license was issued in September 2019 which is just a few months
prior to the end of the tenancy
before me. In short, I do not find that SK’s driver’s
license supports the
assertion that she lived elsewhere during the term of the tenancy.




 
15. 
SK also submitted her driver’s license
in an attempt to establish that her signature on the lease
agreement is fraudulent and does not match the signature on her driver’s
license. SK mentioned this several times during the hearing. However, after
closely examining both signatures, I find that they are not sufficiently
different so as to establish that the signature on the lease agreement is
fraudulent. Both signatures are very similar and absent expert testimony from a
handwriting expert I am not satisfied that SK’s driver’s license establishes
that her signature on the lease agreement is fraudulent.
 
16. 
For all of the reasons already
stated and based on the evidence before me, I do not find
SK to be a credible witness overall and I find that SK has failed to establish that she
did not sign the lease, she did not live at the rental unit and she is
not a properly named Tenant.
 
c)      AM’s Testimony
 
17. 
For the following
reasons, I find AM’s testimony to lack overall credibility. AM was
argumentative from the outset of the hearing and he refused to follow the
Board’s instructions. The matter
of Board costs
as it relates to AM’s conduct at the hearing
will be discussed later in
this order.
 
18. 
Throughout his
testimony, AM was vague and inconsistent and he failed to provide plausible
explanations when pressed to do so. For
example, at first, AM said the Landlord “harassed” him when he was first
interested in renting the unit and the Landlord “coerced” him into signing the
lease. However, when pressed on this point, AM failed to provide specific
details regarding what specific harassing comments the Landlord made and precisely how she coerced
him into signing
the lease agreement. At best, it appeared
from AM’s testimony that he felt frustrated at being required to submit
employment documents and credit
information to the Landlord and it was this frustration that led him to
feel “harassed”. This is just one example of how AM’s testimony often did not
accurately reflect the reality of the situation he described. AM’s testimony on
this point further evolved when he said that the Landlord actually “forced” him
to put SK’s name on the lease “for insurance purposes”. This portion of AM’s
testimony did not make sense and is just one example of how his description of
certain facts tended to evolve and change throughout the hearing.
 
19. 
Much of AM’s testimony
was also not supported by the documentation. For example, AM repeatedly described himself as a “single
dad” and he allegedly told the Landlord
that SK would come to the
rental unit periodically to help with his children. However, this description
of SK contradicts the rental application in which AM describes SK as his common
law spouse and it contradicts the text message in which the Landlord asks AM for his “wife’s name”
and he responds with SK’s name. His description of being a “single dad” is also not supported by the rental
application which contains no list of his children’s names even though several
lines are provided to list potential occupants.
 
20. 
I would also note that AM seemed to have selective
recall when it came to certain details. For example, he could not
remember how he sent the signed lease to the Landlord. He also allegedly could
not remember who filled out the rental application, and then he adamantly
claimed the Landlord filled out the application, even though it contains phone




 
numbers and
employment details that the Landlord could not possibly know. Also, even though
AM says he is currently in law school, he also said that he was not aware that
using someone’s ID or their signature without
their permission is an offence.
Finally, AM’s description of
his relationship with SK changed constantly throughout the hearing. AM
described SK as a friend, then as a business partner, then as someone who would
help with his children, then as a “friend he wanted to marry”. When pressed on
any of these descriptions, AM was unable to explain himself or provide any
details to support his testimony.
 
21. 
For all of these
reasons, and based on the evidence before me, I find that AM lacks overall credibility and I find that he has
failed to establish that SK was not a Tenant in
the matter before me.
 
d)     MD’s Testimony
 
22. 
In contrast to SK and AM’s testimony,
MD provided her testimony in a
clear, detailed and consistent manner
throughout both direct and cross examination. MP described her initial
interactions with AM in detail. She explained how she sent a blank copy of the
lease to AM via email and she instructed him and his wife to sign the last page
and also place their initials on each page. MP said AM emailed her the signed
lease on December 13, 2017, and she saw that all of her instructions were
followed.
 
23. 
MP explained that AM
completed the rental application, but he was not able to provide her with many
of the documents she usually requires. MP says she usually requires applicants
to submit two pieces of ID, two recent pay stubs, an employment letter, a
credit report and a reference letter. However, AM told her that his car was recently
stolen and he could only provide one piece of ID, one pay stub and one credit
report. MP says that she agreed to rent to AM and SK even though they failed to
provide all of the documents she normally requests.
 
24. 
MP says that AM
informed her that SK was his wife and would be living in the rental
unit to look after their children. This description is supported by the
rental application, the lease agreement and various texts
between MP and AM in which they discuss AM’s wife
and refer to her as “Sarah”.
 
25. 
When asked whether MP
ever visited the rental unit to see who was living there, MP explained that,
whenever she needed to visit the unit, AM would find an excuse to prevent her
from entering. For example, AM would say they had guests, or were unavailable.
As MP was not comfortable entering the unit without the Tenants’ permission,
she did not enter the unit to see who was living there. MP says she never
actually saw AM or SK living in the rental
unit but she understood from her conversations with AM and from her text
message exchanges with both AM and SK that the two were married and were both
living in the rental unit. I find MP’s testimony on this particular point to be
most persuasive. Even though it could have been detrimental to her case for her
to admit that she never entered the rental unit, MP’s testimony on this point
was forthright and detailed and she explained this aspect of the situation
without hesitation. This leads me to find that MP is a credible witness
overall.




 
26. 
MP also provided what I
find to be the most reasonable description of events in this matter. MP says
that both SK and AM held themselves out to be Tenants and interacted with her as such on numerous
occasions. This included
sending text messages
back and forth regarding rent
and utility bills. MP says that the lease was signed and initialled by both SK
and AM and she had no reason to question this when the document was returned to
her by email the day after she met with AM. MP says that notices of termination
were served in both Tenants’ names with no objection by either Tenant. These
notices of termination were then followed by applications filed with the Board
and at least one hearing. At no time during any of this process did either
Tenant raise the issue of whether they were both properly named. The only time
the question of whether SK is a Tenant was raised was after the Landlord
attempted to collect the outstanding rent through the collections process.
As AM is self-employed and SK works for the City, it falls to SK to be the primary source of
recuperating the outstanding funds because the Landlord has no way to garnish
AM’s wages or collect from his salary. MP explained that it is for this reason that SK only
began presenting this argument April 2019 after the Landlord received a Board
order for the outstanding arrears. Based on the evidence before me, I find that
this is the most reasonable explanation and this explanation is supported by
the documentation before me.
 
e)     The Evidence in Support of the
Landlord
 
27.  As both SK’s testimony and AM’s testimony was so
convoluted throughout the three-day hearing,
it is helpful to outline
specifically what evidence
has led me to determine that SK is indeed a
Tenant in this matter. That evidence is as follows.
 
28. 
First, the rental
application describes SK as AM’s “common law spouse” and contains specific
employment information and contact information for her. Second, in an email
dated December 14, 2017, SK sends her pay stub to AM, which suggests that she
knew he was completing a rental application. Third, the lease agreement is
signed by SK, is initialed on each page by SK and lists SK as a Tenant. The
lease agreement also lists AM and SK together in the “address
for notice” section. Third, various text messages and bank records confirm that SK
sent money to the Landlord for rent and for utility bills. Various text messages from AM to the Landlord indicate that SK is AM’s “wife”. Until April 2019, SK’s text messages contain no objections from her
to the Landlord to indicate that she is not a Tenant and does not live in the
rental unit. Also, in a text message dated March 29, 2018, from AM to the
Landlord regarding a hydro bill, he responds “leave it there, Sarah is at
home and am coming next week” [Emphasis added]. This response suggest that
SK is actually living in the rental unit. I
find that all of this documentary evidence supports the Landlord’s testimony
that SK signed the lease, was living in the rental unit and is a properly named
Tenant in this matter.
 
29.  For all of these reasons,
I find that the original
order does not contain a serious error
and the Tenants’ request for review must be denied.




 
Board Costs
 
30. 
As indicated above, AM
became so disruptive during the hearing that I exercised my discretion pursuant
to Guideline 3 of the Board’s Interpretation Guideline to order AM to
pay Board costs in the amount of $100.00.
 
31. 
Guideline 3 states that
the Board may order costs “where a party’s conduct in the proceeding was unreasonable.” The Guideline goes on to explain that “unreasonable
conduct” includes:
 
•        
Any misconducted at the hearing
or in the proceeding;
 
…
 
•        
Acting contemptuously toward the member
or showing a lack of respect for the
process or the Board;
 
•        
Failing to follow the directions of the Member or upsetting
the orderly conduct
of the hearing.
 
32. 
Although this Guideline is not binding
on the Board, I see no reason to depart from it in
this instance.
 
33. 
AM frequently
interrupted the proceedings while SK was giving testimony. AM was warned about
this disruptive behaviour several times and he was assured that he would be
given a chance to present his entire case. AM was also warned that, if his
interruptions continued, he would be ordered to pay Board costs. Even in the
face of several warnings, AM continued to interrupt SK’s testimony and the
Landlord’s testimony and he
continued to be disruptive. As a result, an order will issue instructing AM to
pay Board costs in the amount of $100.00.
 
34. 
This order contains all the reasons
within it and no further reasons
will be issued.
 
It is ordered
that:
 
1.    
The Tenants’
request to review order
CEL-81476-18 issued on February 11, 2019,
is denied. The order is confirmed and remains unchanged.
 
2.    
The interim
order issued on February
6, 2019, is cancelled. The stay of order CEL-81476-
18 is lifted.
 
3.    
The Tenant AM shall pay to the Board $100.00
for Board costs on
or before January
31, 2022.
 
 
January 5, 2022 Date Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
 
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy,
5th Floor Mississauga ON
L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
Payment of the costs must be made to the Board by the
deadline set out above. The costs can be paid by certified cheque, bank draft or money order made payable
to the Minister of Finance.
If paying in person, the debt can also be paid by cash, credit card or debit
card.

