Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-28
File number:	
CEL-03898-21

Citation:	Nazary v Azimi, 2022 CanLII 127265 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jv04m>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-03898-21
 
 



In the matter of:


BASEMENT, 09 UNGAVA
BAY ROAD BRAMPTON ON L6R3M6


 




Between:


Mohammad Nazary


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Breshna Azimi


Tenant



 
 
 
Mohammad Nazary (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Breshna Azimi
(the 'Tenant') because
the Landlord requires
possession of the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation.
 
This application was heard via video conference on January 20, 2022.
 
Only the Landlord, the Landlord’s legal
representative, Muhammad Khan, and the Landlord’s son, Ajmal Nazary, attended the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
For the following reasons,
I find that the Landlord’s application should be dismissed.
 
2.    
The Landlord served the Tenant
with a notice of termination because he says his son genuinely intends
to move into the rental
unit and live there for at least
one year. Initially, the Landlord’s son,
‘AN’, did not attend the hearing,
but upon request he was able to call
into the virtual hearing by telephone.
 
3.    
When AN was questioned about his
plans to move into the rental unit, his answers were vague and inconsistent. AN explained that he is currently
living in a group home where he is receiving constant medical care and
treatment. He plans to move into the rental unit with his wife, who is currently living
in another country. When asked
to clarify the timing of his plans, AN’s answers were
inconsistent. At first, he said his wife will arrive in Canada in 3 months. Then he explained that he
actually has no idea when his wife will arrive because a lawyer is still
working on her immigration case. AN then went onto explain that he has been
married for 2-3 years but his wife does not have a visa to come to Canada and
it is unclear to him when his wife will be able to move here.




File Number: CEL-03898-21
 
4.    
I also asked AN about his medical
care when he moves into the rental unit. At first, AN explained that he
currently has easy access to all the medical care he requires and he would have
to obtain an entirely new team of medical professionals if he were to move into
the rental unit. Then, AN changed his answer and said that perhaps he could
keep the same doctors when he moves. AN then confirmed that, although he has
spoken briefly to one social worker about his possible move, he has not thought
through the process or made a plan for the steps
he should take when he moves into the rental
unit.
 
5.    
Based on the evidence before me, I
am not satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the Landlord’s son
genuinely intends to reside in the rental unit. AN’s testimony was vague
overall and seemed to change over time. AN gave several different answers to the same questions and seemed not to have
given any thought to his intentions to move into the rental unit or the
consequences to his healthcare of making such a move. It was also not clear from AN’s testimony when he would move in or if his wife would ever actually be allowed to enter the country. For all
of these reasons, I am not satisfied that the Landlord’s son genuinely intends
to move into the rental unit. Therefore, the Landlord’s application must be
dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
 
February 28, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Laura Hartslief
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy,
5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

