Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-21
File number:	
CEL-02454-21-RV

Citation:	Hobart v Pereira, 2022 CanLII 78850 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrpzp>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 21.2 of the
Statutory Powers
Procedure Act
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-02454-21-RV
 
 



In the matter of:


BASEMENT, 164
SLABTOWN ROAD CLARKSBURG ON
  N0H1J0


 




Between:


Rosalind Hobart


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Rafael Pereira


Tenant



 
 
Review Order
 
 
Rosalind Hobart (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Rafael Pereira (the 'Tenant') because
the Landlord requires possession of the rental
unit for the purpose
of residential occupation. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day
the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was resolved by order CEL-02454-21 issued on December 21, 2021.
On January 19, 2022 the Tenant requested a review of the order.
A preliminary review of the review
request was completed without a hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Tenant claims both that he was not reasonably able to participate in the hearing
and that there is a serious error in the Board’s order.
 
Not Reasonably Able to
Participate
 
2.    
On this issue, the Tenant claims
that he could not attend the hearing
because he was moving and because of his work
commitments.
 
3.     In Q Res IV Operating
GP Inc. v. Berezovs’ka, 2017 ONSC 5541 (CanLII)
the Divisional Court held, in part:
 
Lack of diligence in dealing
with court proceedings is a reason
for refusing to set aside an order
where a party has failed
to appear.        If parties are not diligent
in
dealing with legal proceedings then they cannot
demand that a Tribunal waste
its




 
resources by rehearing matters a
second time. To allow this would
undermine the ability of the administration of justice to deliver timely,
cost-effective and final orders.
 
4.     Rule 26.8(e) of the Board’s
Rules of Procedure provides that a request to review an order
must provide sufficient information to support a preliminary finding of an
alleged serious error or an explanation for why the requestor was not reasonably able to participate in the hearing.
[Emphasis added.]
 
5.    
The Notice of Hearing
issued to the Tenants provides:
 
If you cannot participate in the hearing,
you should give someone written
permission to represent you and to participate on your behalf and email
it to the Board in advance.
 
6.    
In the present case, the Tenant
does not deny that he received the notice of the hearing and does not assert
that he was unaware of the proceedings. Rather, the Tenant asserts that he
could not attend because he was moving and because of his work commitments.
Although the Board’s record confirms that the Board issued the Notice of
Hearing on October 20, 2021, the Tenant
does not provide
any information with respect to why he did
not authorize another person to attend the hearing to participate on his behalf.
 
7.     The information disclosed in the Tenant’s request to
review confirms that the Tenant prioritized other issues over participating in
the hearing. This is not a reasonable explanation for the Tenant’s
inability to participate in the hearing.
I therefore find that the Tenant was reasonable able to
participate in the proceeding but that he chose not to. This ground of review
will therefore be denied.
 
Serious Error
 
8.    
The Tenant’s claim that there is a serious
error is in substance a recitation of facts that the Tenant could have presented as evidence at the hearing but
for his decision not to attend.
 
9.     There is no serious error in the Board’s failure
to consider evidence
that was not properly
before it in circumstances where the Tenant has not established that he was not
reasonably able to participate in the hearing. This ground of review will
therefore be denied.
 
Conclusion
 
10.  In the circumstances I am not satisfied that
there is a serious error
in the order or that a
serious error occurred in the proceedings or that the Tenant was not reasonably able to participate in
the proceedings.
 
11.  The request to review also confirms that the Tenant
vacated the rental
unit on December 31, 2021, which means that the substantive issue on
application would be moot if the matter was directed to a review hearing.




 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The request to review order
CEL-02454-21 issued on December 21, 2021 is denied. The order is confirmed and remains
unchanged.
 
 




January 21, 2022 Date Issued
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5



 
 
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

