Metadata:
Date:	2018-05-04
File number:	
CEL-74645-18
	CEL-74645-18
Citation:	CEL-74645-18 (Re), 2018 CanLII 88509 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hv7jx>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hv7jx
Content:


File Number: CEL-74645-18
 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
 











 
 
 

JN (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict WO (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant did not pay the rent
that the Tenant owes.
 
This application was heard in Barrie on May 1, 2018.
 
The Landlord and the Tenant
attended the hearing.
 
At the hearing the Tenant raised
the following issues pursuant to section 82 of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'): failure to maintain the rental unit, illegal entry,
harassment, and substantial interference with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit.
 
The following witnesses testified
at the hearing:
GB (roommate of Tenant) on behalf
of Tenant
GO (Landlord’s friend) on behalf
of Landlord
SF (Landlord’s co-worker) on
behalf of Landlord
 
Determinations:
 
1.     
The Tenant did not dispute
the rent arrears of $6,000.00 owing to May 31, 2018 as claimed by the
Landlord.  The Tenant requested an off-set of these arrears as part of the
remedies for the issues she raised pursuant to section 82 of the Act.
2.     
The Tenant has not paid the
total rent the Tenant was required to pay for the period from March 1, 2018 to
May 31, 2018.  Because of the arrears, the Landlord served a Notice of
Termination effective March 21, 2018.
3.     
The issues raised by the Tenant were: illegally
entering the rental unit, harassing the Tenant with respect to numerous letters
on her door, sitting outside the rental unit in his car, discussing the issues
in her tenancy with others, and locking the bedroom doors in the basement. All
of which have substantially interfered with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit.   The Tenant also submitted that the Landlord failed to
maintain the rental unit as there was a flood in the basement and carport on
January 22, 2018.  
4.     
There was no dispute that
there was water penetration into the basement of the rental unit on January 22,
2018, most likely due to the thawing of the snow from the exterior.  The
carport at the rental unit also had water pooling.  The Tenant immediately
notified the Landlord of the issue.  According to the Tenant, the issue of
water leakage has been continuous, there is mold in the areas of basement
affected by the water leakage, the Landlord has not completed any repairs, and
the Landlord has failed to comply with the City of Orillia’s Order for
compliance. 
5.     
The Tenant had the two
bedrooms in the basement rented out. After the water leaked into the basement,
according to her, the Landlord told these renters to move out. The basement
remains unused.  She was also upset that the Landlord requested that she remove
any belongings from the basement, as she is physically unable to do so and had
to hire someone to help her.   She also found that the Landlord added new locks
to the bedroom doors in the basement and left the rooms locked. 
6.     
The Tenant stated that the
Landlord would continually attend and access the rental unit without any notice
or sufficient notice.  She believed that this occurred at least a dozen times lately. 
She subsequently demanded that the Landlord provide proper notice in writing to
her.  
7.     
She complained about
receiving letters in the last couple of months on her front door from the
Landlord. She also would find the Landlord sitting or driving in his vehicle
outside the rental unit for long periods of time.  And on one occasion near her
work.  Further, she did not appreciate that the Landlord’s girlfriend discussed
the issues in her tenancy with someone she worked with in the past. 
8.     
The Landlord stated that he
believes that the issue with the water penetrating the basement and pooling in
certain areas is related to the driveway as he had completed some work to the
driveway last year.  He stated that he attended the rental unit, removed the
flooring in the basement, cleaned up the pools of water, and painted the cement
floor. His witness, GO, confirmed that he attended the rental unit with the
Landlord around mid-February 2018 to remove the flooring, clean the area and
paint the cement floor.   GO stated that there were no signs of any mold in the
basement area.
9.     
The Landlord also stated
that he rented a storage bin for the Tenant.  The bin was placed in the
driveway for the Tenant to store the belongings from the basement in order for
him to remove the flooring, clean and paint the cement floor in the
basement.    According to the Landlord, the bin remains in the driveway because
the Tenant refused to put her belongings back in the rental unit.  He stated
that having the bin still in the driveway has prevented him from repairing any
exterior issues.  He also stated that he had to wait until winter was over. He
submitted a copy of an email from the City of Orillia confirming an extension
to May 15, 2018 to complete the exterior repairs.  
10.  
As well, the Landlord
submitted that he has been unable to access the rental unit since mid-March
2018 as the Tenant has either refused entry or has prevented entry despite
receiving notices on her door. The Tenant acknowledged that she installed an
additional lock on the interior of the entrance door to prevent the Landlord
from accessing the rental unit. 
11.  
Subsection 20(1) of the Act
states the following:
A landlord is responsible for providing and maintaining a
residential complex, including the rental units in it, in a good state of
repair and fit for habitation and for complying with health, safety, housing
and maintenance standards
12.  
Subsection 20(1) of the Act
does not contain an element of fault. However, regardless of the reasons why a
landlord is unable to provide a rental unit in a good state of repair and fit
for habitation, if they are unable to do so, they will generally be found to be
in breach of their obligations under the Act.
 
13.  
The Divisional Court in Offredi
v. 751768 Ontario Ltd 1994 CanLII 11006 (ON SCDC), [1994] O.J. No. 1204 stated: 
 
“The question of fault on the landlord’s part
is not the issue... What the tenants claim is a breach of contract. The tenants
were paying full rent for premises which the landlord was under an obligation…
to keep in a good state of repair and fit for habitation. The landlord failed
to do that. That is the basis for the claim for an abatement …”
 
14.  
In a more recent case, the Ontario Court of Appeal in Onyskiw v. CJM
Property Management Ltd. (2016 ONCA 477) has determined that landlord is not automatically in breach of their
maintenance obligations as soon as a problem arises and a contextual approach is necessary in
determining whether or not a landlord has breached their maintenance
obligations under section 20 of the Act. That approach involves a consideration
of the “entirety of the factual situation” before determining that a landlord
is in breach of their maintenance obligations.
15.  
I have taken into account
the entirety of the issue with the water penetration into the basement and
water pooling in the carport, including the cause, the scope of the project and
timing involved in resolving this issue. In this context, I still find that the
Landlord is in breach of their maintenance obligations under section 20 of the
Act.
16.  
I am satisfied that the
Landlord is not ignoring the issue.  He attended the rental unit, removed the
flooring, and is awaiting a change in the season to complete the exterior
repairs.   However, the Tenant did not get what she paid for, she was not able
to use the basement for approximately one month after the water penetrated the
basement on January 22, 2018.  It was only in mid-February 2018 that the
Landlord removed the flooring and cleaned the area. The Tenant has been impacted
from this loss of use of the basement. Since the Landlord is in breach of
subsection 20(1) of the Act, the Tenant is entitled to a rent abatement.
 
17.  
The Tenant requested a rent
abatement of 100% for three months. I find a more appropriate and warranted
abatement is 25% for the one month period following the water leakage on
January 22, 2018.  Both the Landlord and his witness, GO, confirmed that by
mid-February 2018, the basement was cleaned up and there was no water pooling
in that area.   Therefore, I find that the Tenant is entitled to an abatement
of rent totaling $500.00 ($2,000.00 x .25).
18.  
The Tenant contends that the
water leakage was continuous. However, the evidence before me was insufficient
to substantiate that claim.  The Landlord’s witness, SF, corroborated the
Landlord’s evidence that there was no water in the basement on March 15, 2018
when they attended the rental unit together.  
19.  
The Tenant further contends
that there is an issue with mold in the basement.  However, the evidence before
me was insufficient to substantiate that claim.  The author of the email the
Tenant relied on with respect to his inspection of the basement did not testify
at the hearing.  Therefore, without his evidence being subject to
cross-examination and questioning, very little weight can be given to this
email report.  Both the Landlord, and his witnesses, GO and SF, testified that
they did not see any signs of mold in the basement.  
20.  
In any event, it was not
disputed that the Tenant prevented the Landlord from entering the rental unit
as of mid-March 2018.  The email the Tenant relied upon is date March 14, 2018,
the Landlord has not been given any opportunity to address this issue raised by
the Tenant.  Also, I find it unlikely that if water continued to leak into the
unit and that there were visible signs of mold in the basement that the Tenant
would prevent the Landlord from accessing the unit and completing any necessary
repairs. 
21.  
It was not disputed that the
Tenant had to remove her belongings from the basement in order for the Landlord
to remove the damaged flooring.  The Tenant was physically unable to move these
items and was required to hire someone to assist her.  The Tenant submitted a
receipt for $200.00 being the amount she paid to have the furniture removed
from the basement on February 14, 2018. 
22.  
Based on the evidence before
me, I am satisfied that the Tenant is entitled to reimbursement for the
expenses of $200.00 related to furniture removal.  There was no evidence before
me to support that this amount was unreasonable.
23.  
Based on the evidence before
me, I am not satisfied that the Tenant’s computer tablet and mattress were
damaged by the water leakage into the basement.  The Tenant had no photographs
of the damaged items and/or receipt/invoice for any attempted cleaning or
repair of these items.   
24.  
Based on the evidence before
me, I am not satisfied that the Landlord illegally entered the rental unit. 
The Tenant’s evidence was very general and no specific dates of the alleged
incidents were provided.  There was no dispute that the Landlord changed the
locks on the bedroom doors in the basement, however, the Tenant was able to
gain access to these areas.
25.  
Based on the evidence before
me, I am also not satisfied that the Landlord harassed or substantially
interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit.  The
Landlord stated that if he was outside the premises in his car, he was waiting
for the specific time in the notice given to the Tenant before he could enter. 
He denied stalking the Tenant at her workplace.  He confirmed that he has taken
photographs of his house because it is his property and he wants to ensure that
it is maintained. 
26.  
I find it more likely than
not that the Landlord was only at the premises to address the issues of the
water penetration in the rental unit.  The Tenant seeing her Landlord near her
workplace may have just been a coincidence.  In any event, there were no
interactions and despite the Tenant stating that she sought information
regarding a “peace bond” and spoke with police, there was no evidence presented
of any restraining order, charges, or investigation by the police. 
27.  
The majority of the letters
received by the Tenant were notices of entry that she had previously demanded. 
While two of the letters provided by the Landlord requested that the Tenant
vacate the rental unit, I am satisfied that the Tenant was not impacted by
these letters as she was fully aware and advised the Landlord that a notice to
vacate must be in the proper form.  
28.  
The conversation between the
Landlord’s girlfriend and a friend, former employer, of the Tenant may have
been inappropriate, but it does not support a finding that the Landlord
harassed the Tenant.  The reason for this conversation is unknown as neither party
testified at the hearing.
29.  
The Landlord requested an eviction
order.  There are substantial rent arrears owing currently and the Landlord
intends to move into the rental unit.  The Landlord was not opposed to the
Tenant moving out at the end of the month.
30.  
The Tenant requested an
additional thirty to sixty days to find alternate suitable accommodations.  She
is unable to pay the rent arrears and is simply looking to vacate the rental
unit. 
31.  
Having considered all of the
disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Act, I find
that it would be unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant to subsection
83(1) of the Act, however a delay until May 31, 2018 would not be unfair.  
32.  
The Tenant has not paid any
rent in the last three months, the rent arrears are substantial and she has no
ability to pay these arrears to continue the tenancy.  This application was
filed on March 25, 2018, the Tenant has already had approximately thirty days
to find alternate accommodations, therefore I am satisfied that a delay just
until the end of the month would not be unfair in these circumstances and is
reasonable.  Especially given that the Landlord did not oppose this extension. 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     
Unless the Tenant voids the
order as set out below, the tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenant is
terminated.  The Tenant must move out of the rental unit on or before May 31,
2018.
2.     
The Tenant shall pay to the
Landlord $3,573.82*, which represents the amount of rent owing and compensation
up to May 4, 2018 and less the amount of the abatement the Landlord owes the
Tenant.
3.     
The Tenant shall also pay to
the Landlord $65.75 per day for compensation for the use of the unit starting
May 5, 2018 to the date the Tenant moves out of the unit.
4.     
The Tenant shall also pay to
the Landlord $175.00 for the cost of filing the application.
5.     
If the Tenant does not pay
the Landlord the full amount owing* on or before May 31, 2018, the Tenant will
start to owe interest.  This will be simple interest calculated from June 1,
2018 at 3.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
6.     
If the unit is not vacated
on or before May 31, 2018, then starting June 1, 2018, the Landlord may file
this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may
be enforced.
7.     
Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of
the unit to the Landlord, on or after June 1, 2018.
8.     
If, on or before May 31,
2018, the Tenant pays the amount of $5,475.00** to the Landlord or to the Board
in trust, this order for eviction will be void.  This means that the tenancy
would not be terminated and the Tenant could remain in the unit.  If this
payment is not made in full and on time, the Landlord may file this order with
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced.
9.     
The Tenant may make a motion to the Board under
subsection 74(11) of the Act to set aside this order if they pay the amount
required under that subsection on or after June 1, 2018 but before the Sheriff
gives vacant possession to the Landlord. The Tenant is only entitled to make
this motion once during the period of the tenancy agreement with the Landlord.
 
May 4, 2018                                                                      _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Lisa
Del Vecchio
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor
Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of
the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires on December 1,
2018 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental
unit is located.
 
*           Refer to section A on
the attached Summary of Calculations.
**         Refer to section B on
the attached Summary of Calculations.




Schedule
1
SUMMARY
OF CALCULATIONS
 
File
Number: CEL-74645-18
 
A.        Amount the Tenant
must pay if the tenancy is terminated:
 



Reasons for amount owing


Period


Amount



 



 Arrears: (up to the termination date in
  the Notice of Termination)


March 1, 2018 to March 21, 2018


$1,380.82



 



Plus compensation: (from the day after the
  termination date in the Notice to the date of the order)


March 22, 2018 to May 4, 2018


$2,893.00



 



Less amount owing to the Tenant
  for abatement/rebate:


 


-$700.00



 



Amount owing to the Landlord on
  the order date:(total
  of previous boxes)


$3,573.82



 



Additional costs the Tenant must
  pay to the Landlord:


$175.00



 



Plus daily compensation owing
  for each day of occupation starting May 5, 2018:


$65.75 (per day)



 



Total the Tenant must pay the
  Landlord if the tenancy is terminated:


$3,748.82,
  + $65.75
  per day starting May 5, 2018



 
 
 
 
 
B. Amount the Tenant must pay
to void the eviction order and continue the tenancy:
 



Reasons for amount owing


Period


Amount



 



Arrears:


March 1, 2018 to May 31, 2018


$6,000.00



 



Less amount owing to the Tenant
  for abatement/rebate:


 


-$700.00



 



Additional costs the Tenant must
  pay to the Landlord:


 


$175.00



 



Total the Tenant must pay to
  continue the tenancy:


On or before May 31, 2018


$5,475.00



 
 

