Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-14
File number:	
CEL-02325-21

Citation:	Waite v Dakin, 2022 CanLII 100260 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jspn4>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:


 
 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
File Number: CEL-02325-21
 



In the matter
of:


BASEMENT, 83 GLENWOOD DRIVE BARRIE ON L4N1R5


 




Between:


Christine Waite


Landlord




 


and


 




 


Cindy Dakin Donald
McKinley


Tenants



 
Christine Waite (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Donald McKinley and Cindy Dakin (the
'Tenants') because
a)    
they, another occupant of
the rental unit or someone they permitted in the
residential complex have wilfully
or negligently caused
undue damage to the premises; because
b)    
they, another occupant of the rental
unit used the rental
unit or the residential complex
in a manner that is
inconsistent with use as a residential premises and that has caused or can be
expected to cause significant damage, and because
c)     
they, another occupant of the rental
unit or a person
the Tenants permitted
in the residential complex
have seriously impaired the safety of any person.
The Landlord has also applied for an order requiring the Tenants to compensate the Landlord for the damage.
This application was heard via
video/teleconference on December
2, 2021.
The Landlord and the Tenants attended
the hearing. The Tenants spoke
with Duty Counsel
prior to the hearing.
 
Determinations:
1.    
On November 23, 2020,
the police executed
a search warrant
of the rental unit and residential complex as part of a ‘drug
trafficking investigation’.
2.    
During the execution of the warrant
by police, the main entry doors to the residential complex were forced open and
damaged by the police to give entry to the property.
3.    
The Landlord repaired the door and is seeking
costs for repair and replacement costs for the door
that the police damaged while executing their search warrant.
4.    
Section 89(1) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) provides that a landlord may apply to the Board for an order requiring the
tenant to pay reasonable costs that the landlord has incurred or will incur for
the repair of or, where repairing is not reasonable, the replacement of damaged
property, if the tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or
a person whom the tenant permits in the residential complex wilfully or negligently causes undue damage to the
rental unit or the residential complex and the tenant is in possession of the
rental unit.




5.    
Although it was the Tenant’s criminal
activities that ultimately led to the consequential
damage that occurred to the entrance door to the rental unit by police.
 
6.     Section 89(1) of the Act is very specific as to who has to cause the damages, and in this case, the damage to the door was
caused by police and not by the Tenants, or another occupant of the rental unit
or by a person permitted into the rental unit or residential complex by the
Tenants, which raises the question are the Tenants liable for the cost to repair.
 
7.     On any application before the Board, the party making an allegation in an application has the onus of proving those allegations on a balance of
probabilities.
 
8.    
The standard of proof requires the
party to show with evidence that, “more likely than not”, their
assertions are true and that evidence
“must be sufficiently clear, convincing and cogent to satisfy the
balance of probabilities test.”
 
9.     The Landlord led no definitive evidence as to the
presence of the Tenants in the rental unit or residential complex at the time of the execution
of the search warrant and or was there
any supportive evidence
submitted that the Tenants were directly charged
with an illegal act involving
drugs at the residential complex.
 
10.  Section 75 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, (the ‘Act’)
states that the Board may terminate the tenancy based on a
notice of termination for an illegal act whether or not the Tenant has been
convicted of an offence.
 
11.  Based on the totality of the testimonies given and in
this instance, the lack of specific evidence,
I was not satisfied that the Tenants, or another occupant
of the rental unit or by
a person permitted into the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants
committed an illegal act or was carrying on an illegal business at the
residential complex involving drugs. Therefore, I deny the portion of the
Landlord’s application to end the tenancy and eviction of the Tenants.
 
12.  In the circumstances relating to damage, a strict and
narrow interpretation of section 89 of the Act could lead to
an unjust result
since the Landlord
would have to bear the cost of repairing the door when it is the
illegal acts that led to the damage to the door.
 
13.  In this case, I found that the Landlord failed to meet their burden
of proof of an illegal
act occurring in the residential complex by the Tenants.
 
14.  Even if the Landlord
had met their burden
of proof relating to an
illegal act, the Landlord failed to satisfy
me to the costs incurred
for the repair of the damage to the entry door to the residential complex.
 
15.  The order contains
all the reasons for the decisions within
the order. No other reasons will be issued.




It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
February 14, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Randy Aulbrook
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

