Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-31
File number:	
CEL-02858-21

Citation:	Wang v Oliveira, 2022 CanLII 82049 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrtz2>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-02858-21
 
 



In the matter of:


BASEMENT, 240 CUNDLES ROAD E
  BARRIE ON L4M6L1


 




Between:


Jiang Wang


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Daniel (also Known
As Dan) Oliveira


Tenant



 
 
 
Jiang Wang (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Daniel (also Known As
Dan) Oliveira (the 'Tenant') because the Landlord requires possession of the
rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the
Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard via video conference on January 20,
2022.
 
Only the Landlord, the Landlord’s legal
representative, Virginia Guo, and the Landlord’s
interpreter, Wei Tang, attended the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Issue
 
1.    
The Tenant failed to attend the
hearing, even though he was properly served with the application and the notice
of hearing. The matter was scheduled to begin at 9:00am. I waited until 9:30am
and I canvased the virtual hearing room, the virtual reception area, the
virtual waiting room and all of the breakout rooms to confirm whether the
Tenant attended the hearing.
The Tenant’s name did not appear in any of these areas
and I was satisfied that the Tenant failed to attend the hearing. As I
was satisfied that the Tenant failed to attend, I proceeded to hear the matter
as uncontested.
 
2.     The morning hearing
block ended at 12:20pm and the Tenant
failed to attend
the hearing at any point
during the morning block or the afternoon hearing block that followed.
 
The Landlord’s Application
 
3.    
I
am satisfied that the notice
of termination is valid on its face and that the Landlord
paid the required one-month compensation to the Tenant prior to the date
of termination on




 
the notice. I am also satisfied that the Landlord
submitted a duly completed affidavit along with her application and that affidavit meets the
requirements of subsection 72(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act').
 
4.    
For the following reasons,
I find that the Landlord
in good faith requires possession of the rental unit
for the purpose of residential occupation.
 
5.    
The residential complex is a house with a two-bedroom rental
unit on the main floor and a two-bedroom rental unit in the basement.
The Tenants who used to live on the main floor have now moved out and
the Tenant who is the subject of the application before me lives
in the basement.
 
6.    
The Landlord says she intends to
occupy the entire house including the main floor and the basement because she
has a husband and two children and she is expecting a third child in March of
this year. She says that she is currently renting a house in another community,
but the housing prices are too high for her budget and she is unable to
purchase a property in her current community. The Landlord says she intends to
move into the rental unit and have her 11 year-old
son occupy a basement bedroom
while she, her husband and her
2 year old daughter occupy the main floor unit.
 
7.     The Landlord presented her testimony in a detailed and consistent manner
and I have no reason to
disbelieve her. Based on all of the evidence before me, I am satisfied on the
balance of probabilities that the Landlord genuinely intends to move into the
entire residential complex, including the rental unit, and for these reasons,
the Landlord’s application should be granted.
 
8.    
At the hearing, I asked the Landlord if there were any
circumstances which would
cause me to either delay or deny terminating the tenancy. The Landlord
was unaware of any such circumstances. I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with
subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and
find that it would be unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant to
subsection 83(1) of the Act.
 
9.    
I would also note that, although the Landlord is seeking daily compensation from
the date of termination on the
notice, the Board already issued order CEL-02828-21 on January 18, 2022, which
is a standard order for arrears and ongoing daily compensation. As the Landlord
already has an order for the outstanding arrears and daily compensation, there
is no need for me to include
additional daily compensation in this order.
I explained this to
the Landlord’s legal representative at the hearing and she said she understood
and agreed.
 
10. 
This order contains all the reasons
within it and no further reasons
will be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenant
is terminated. The Tenant must move
out of the rental unit on or before February 11, 2022.




 
2.    
If the unit is not vacated
on or before February 11, 2022, then starting February
12, 2022, the Landlord may
file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the
eviction may be enforced.
 
3.    
Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after February 12, 2022.
 
 
 
January 31, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy,
5th Floor Mississauga ON
L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of
the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires on August 12, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

