Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-14
File number:	
CEL-00754-21

Citation:	Whynot  v Hooey, 2022 CanLII 100328 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jspn1>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-00754-21
 
 
In the matter of:      562889 COUNTY ROAD 25
DORNOCH ON N0G1R0
 




Between:                  Gary Whynot Cara Whynot


Landlords




 
 
and
 




Brian Hooey
Kathie Hooey A.k.a Kathie
Thomas


Tenants




 
 
 
Gary Whynot and Cara Whynot (the 'Landlords') applied
for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict Kathie Hooey A.k.a Kathie Thomas
and Brian Hooey (the 'Tenants') because the Landlord has entered into an
agreement of purchase and sale of the rental unit and the purchaser requires possession
of the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation. The Landlords
also claimed compensation for each
day the Tenants remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard
by videoconference on August 19, 2021.
 
The Landlords, their Legal Representative, Kara Muzzell, the Tenants and their Legal Representative, Daniel English,
attended the hearing.
 
Preliminary Issue:
 
1.     At the start of the hearing, the Landlords Legal
Representative confirmed that the property was sold on July 30, 2021 by Kristy
Hounsell and Matt Hounsell (former Landlords) to Gary Whynot and Cara Whynot.
She further stated that the correct Landlords for the purpose of this
application are Gary Whynot and Cara Whynot who were present at the hearing. The Board was satisfied that Gary Whynot
and Cara Whynot were the Landlords for the purposes of this
application and therefore
I updated the record accordingly to reflect this change.
 
Determinations:
 
2.     Gary Whynot and Cara Whynot purchased the residential complex
from the previous Landlords (Kristy Hounsell
and Matt Hounsell)
and they in good faith
require possession of the
rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation.




 
3.    
The Landlords have filed
an affidavit sworn
by the person (Gary Whynot) who personally
requires the rental unit certifying that the person in good faith requires the
rental unit for his own personal use.
 
4.    
The Landlord paid the Tenant
compensation equal to $1,581.00 on June 30, 2021 by crediting the Tenants this
sum, when applying this amount as a payment on the L1L9 update form. The
Landlords informed the Tenants on June 30, 2021 in writing that this credit of $1,581.00 was applied to the rent arrears for the purpose
of compensating them for having been served with an N12
notice by the Landlords.
 
5.     The Tenants’ Legal Representative argued that the
credit of $1,581.00 applied to the L1L9 update form is not adequate
compensation. He further submitted that it does not satisfy the requirement
laid out in the Act and that it is not an economic benefit to the Tenant. He
characterized this credit as an academic benefit, which he submitted is not a
substantive economic benefit as required by the Act. The Tenants’ Legal
Representative submitted that the intention of the law is to put money in the
hands of the Tenant and claw it back
at an L9 hearing. I disagree with the Tenants’ Legal Representative
interpretation of the law. The Act does not state that the only acceptable economic benefit is
direct payment to the Tenant. The exact wording of the Act as per section 49.1
is as follows: “A landlord shall compensate a tenant in an amount equal to
one month’s rent or offer the tenant another rental unit acceptable to the
tenant if, the landlord gives the tenant a
notice of termination of the tenancy on behalf of a purchaser under section 49(1) or (2)”. The
manner in which the compensation must be made is not specified in the Act.
Providing a credit to the
Tenants by deducting one month’s rent from the outstanding rent
arrears amount is a substantive economic benefit. I do not find it reasonable
to pay the Tenants $1,581.00 as compensation and subsequently file an L9
application seeking to recover that amount as part of rent arrears. It prolongs
and complicates the process unnecessarily and it provides an unfair advantage
to the Tenants. In a Landlord and Tenant relationship, both parties have rights
and obligations. One of the Tenant’s obligations is to pay the rent when it is due. If the Landlords are waiving that obligation by applying a credit to the Tenants
outstanding rent arrears, to satisfy their obligation to compensate the Tenants
for having served them with an N12 notice of termination, I find this approach
acceptable, reasonable and rational. It is unfair to insist that a Landlord
provide monetary compensation to Tenants that have substantive rent arrears for
the Landlord to meet their obligation under the Act. If this was the intention
of the legislator that the only acceptable method of compensation is direct
payment to the Tenant, it would have been made clear in the Act. The intention is to provide
the Tenants with some relief when they are served with an
unexpected N12 notice of termination. I find that waiving the rent for one
month is adequate relief based on the circumstances of this case.
 
6.     I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would be unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1) of
the Act. The Tenants raised issues related to their health that resulted from
an assault that occurred. I am not privy to the details of the assault and did
not consider the facts related to the assault allegations in making my decision. However,
I did consider the health
issues resulting from the
assault. The Tenants submitted
that if they were asked
to leave, they would require
3 to 4 months




 
to vacate the rental unit. The
Tenants also raised several maintenance issues that they claim the Landlords
failed to address. The Tenants refused to allow the Landlord (Gary Whynot)
access to the rental unit to assess the damages and make the repairs. The
Tenants submitted that due to the aggressive and confrontational interactions
they had with the Landlords in the past, they are very fearful of allowing them
in the rental unit. I appreciate the concern raised by the Tenants in that
regard, however I do not find it warrants denying the Landlords complete access
to the rental unit. The Tenants could have coordinated with the Landlords to
provide access to the rental unit when they are not physically at present.
There was no evidence presented to suggest that the Tenants were unable to
leave the rental unit temporarily, due to health reasons or otherwise, to allow
the Landlords entry to the unit to assess the extent of the repairs that is
required. I do not find that the Landlords were given a reasonable opportunity
to make the repairs. The Tenants take the position that the Landlords are
unable to make the repairs without first giving them a genuine opportunity to make
these repairs. Even if the Landlords were to hire an independent contractor to make the repairs, it would
be reasonable for them to at least
see the interior
of the rental unit to get a sense of what is required and how much it
may cost when they decide
to solicit the services of an independent contractor. The Act requires that the Landlord makes a reasonable effort to make the required
repairs. There is no obligation to retain an independent contractor to do the
required repairs. Without first giving the Landlords an opportunity to make the necessary repairs,
the Board cannot find that they failed to meet
their obligation as a Landlord in this regard. Based on the evidence provided by both parties, the Board is persuaded that the Landlords
require the rental unit for the residential purposes for their own personal
use. The Landlords have complied with the statutory requirements by providing a
valid affidavit and compensating the Tenants accordingly. I have no reason to
believe that the Landlords are
acting in bad faith and trust that they will reside in the rental unit for at
least 12 months as stated in their affidavit.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The tenancy between
the Landlords and the Tenants
is terminated, as of
February 14, 2022. The Tenants must
move out of the rental unit on or before February 25, 2022.
 
2.    
The Tenants shall pay to the Landlords $11,903.42, which represents compensation for the use of the unit from
July 1, 2021 to February 14, 2022.
 
3.     The Tenants shall
also pay to the Landlords
$51.98 per day for compensation for the use of the unit from February 15, 2022 to
the date they move out of the unit.
 
4.     The Tenants shall also pay to the Landlords $186.00
for the cost of filing the application.
 
5.     If the Tenants do not pay the Landlords the full
amount owing on or before February 25, 2022,
they will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from February 26, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
balance outstanding.
 
6.     If the unit is not vacated on or before
February 25, 2022, then starting
February 26, 2022, the Landlords may file this order
with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be
enforced.




 
7.    
Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlords on or after February 26, 2022.
 
 
February 14, 2022 Date
Issued
Poeme Manigat
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81
of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires on August 26, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before
this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

