Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-17
File number:	
CEL-03687-21

Citation:	Bolt v Spencer, 2022 CanLII 61456 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jqg29>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-03687-21
 
 
In the matter of:      BASEMENT, 3 NINA PLACE
BRAMPTON ON L7A1Z4
 
Between:                  Lena Bolt                                    Landlords
 
 
and
 




Laura Spencer Cheryl Spencer Edward Scott
Stewart


Tenants




 
Lena Bolt (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Laura Spencer,
Cheryl Spencer and Edward Scott Stewart (the ‘Tenants’) because the Landlord
requires possession of the rental unit for the purpose of residential
occupation.
 
This application was heard
via videoconference on January 6, 2022.
 
The Landlord, the Landlord’s legal representative, Carla Graham, the Tenants and the Tenant’s legal representative, Carey
Blake, attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Issue
 
1.     
The application names five
individual Landlords. At the hearing, the Landlord’s representative put forward a motion to remove all but the second-named Landlord,
‘LB’, from the application. The Tenants did not object to this
suggestion and the Landlord’s request was granted. LB is the only personally
named Landlord in this application.
 
The Landlord’s Application
 
2.     
The N12 served on the Tenants says that the Landlord’s child
intends to occupy the rental
unit. However, the Landlord submitted
an affidavit from the individual who intends to move
into the rental unit and the
affidavit says that the
individual is the Landlord’s grandchild. At the hearing, the Landlord’s legal representative confirmed
that the individual who intends to occupy the rental unit is LB’s grandchild.
 
3.     
Section 48(1) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the
'Act') states:




File Number: CEL-03687-21
 
A landlord may, by notice,
terminate a tenancy if the landlord in good faith requires possession of the rental unit for the purpose
of residential occupation for
a period of at least one year by,
 
(a)    
the landlord;
 
(b)    
the landlord’s spouse;
 
(c)    
a
child or parent
of the landlord or the landlord’s spouse;
or
 
(d)    
a
person who provides
or will provide care services
to the landlord, the landlord’s spouse, or a child or parent of the
landlord or the landlord’s spouse, if the person receiving the care services
resides or will reside in the building, related group
of buildings, mobile
home park or land lease
community in which the rental unit is located.
 
4.     
The Act makes no mention of landlords’ grandchildren in this list. As grandchildren are not eligible to
assume occupancy of a rental unit according to Section 48(1) of the Act, the
notice of termination is invalid and must be dismissed. We would also note that the notice of
termination is invalid because it is inaccurate; the notice states that the Landlord’s child intends to move into the unit but
there is no dispute that it is actually the Landlord’s grandchild who intends
to move in. For these reasons, the notice of termination is invalid and the
Landlord’s application must be dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Landlord's application is dismissed.
January 17, 2022                                                                                                                                                    Date Issued                                                                      Robert Brown











Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
 
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy,
5th Floor Mississauga ON
L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234




 

