Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-10
File number:	
CEL-01686-21

Citation:	Rosario v Pinto, 2022 CanLII 51362 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpshs>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-01686-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


BASEMENT UNIT, 65 AVONDALE BOULEVARD BRAMPTON ON L6T1H1


 




Between:


Irish Del Rosario Salvador Del Rosario


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Chantelle Pinto Dane D'souza


Tenants



 
 
Irish Del Rosario and Salvador Del Rosario (the 'Landlords') applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Chantelle Pinto and Dane D'souza (the
'Tenants') because they or another occupant of the rental unit have committed
an illegal act or have carried out, or permitted someone to carry out an
illegal trade, business or occupation in the rental unit or the residential
complex (N6 notice); and because they intend to convert the rental unit to a
non-residential use (N13 notice). The Landlords also claimed compensation for
each day the Tenants remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by video conference
on October 21, 2021. The Landlord Irish
Del Rosario attended the hearing and was represented by Yuliya
Molchanova, Paralegal. The
Tenant’s attended
the hearing and were self represented.
 
Determinations:
 
1.   
The Landlord’s
application is based on an N6 notice served to the Tenants on July 24, 2021 with a termination date of August
22,2021 and a N13 notice served
to the Tenants on July 24, 2021 with a termination date of January 31,
2022.
 
2.   
The N6 notice alleges
that the Tenants
have committed an illegal act within the rental unit and/or residential complex. The N13 notice states that the Landlord
intends to convert the rental unit to non-residential use.
 
3.   
The rental
unit is a basement apartment
located within a single detached
dwelling. The Landlord resides
in the main floor unit.
 
Landlord’s evidence:
 
4.   
The Landlord
Irish Del Rosario
provided oral testimony at the hearing
and appeared as the
Landlord’s sole witness.




 
 
 
5.   
The Landlord
testified that the tenancy commenced
on February 1, 2021 and is for a one- year term ending on January 31, 2022. On February 23, 2021 the City of Brampton
Fire and Emergency Department inspected the rental unit and deemed that the
unit was in violation of the Fire Protection and Prevention Act, 1997.
 
6.   
The Landlord
submitted into evidence
a copy the inspection and violation order
issued by the Fire Department
(LL exhibit #1). The order from the
Fire Department requires the Landlord to discontinue use of the basement as a
rental unit or to obtain the necessary permits from the City of Brampton to
make the rental unit in compliance.
 
7.   
The Landlord
testified that they require the Tenants to vacate the rental unit to avoid
being fined by Bylaw. The
Landlord does not intend to conduct any renovations on the rental unit, but
rather use the basement apartment as storage and use the home as a single dwelling.
 
Tenant’s evidence:
 
8.   
The Tenants
don’t dispute the Landlord’s evidence
and agree that the Fire Department has issued an order deeming the rental
unit to not be in compliance with the Fire
Protection and Prevention Act, 1997. The
Tenants do however deny any wrongdoing and argue that the Landlord’s
applications to the Board are not appropriate.
 
9.   
The Tenant’s argue that
the N6 should be dismissed as the Tenants have committed no illegal act and are
simply residing in the rental unit the Landlord leased to them. The Tenants further believe that the N13 notice should
be dismissed as the Landlord
does not intend to convert the
rental unit to non-residential. The
Tenants argue that the Landlord using the rental unit for storage does in fact
constitute residential use, thus rendering the N13 notice defective.
 
10. The Tenants closed
by stating that if evicted
it would be difficult to find a comparable rental unit with the same monthly rent. The Tenants currently have a 4-month-old
baby and no alternative housing.
 
Analysis:
 
Illegal Act:
 
11.
Section 61(1)
of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
Act) states:
 
61 (1) A landlord may give a tenant
notice of termination of the tenancy if the tenant or another occupant of the
rental unit commits an illegal act or carries on an illegal trade, business
or occupation or permits a person to do so in the rental unit or the residential complex.




 
12. Based on the evidence before
the Board, I am not satisfied that the Tenants
have committed an illegal act within the rental unit or residential
complex.
 
13.
The
Landlord’s legal representative argues that the rental unit has been deemed to
be illegal and in contravention of Bylaw and that the Tenants continuing to reside in the rental unit constitutes an illegal
act. I disagree with the Landlord’ argument. The Tenants in this
matter have committed no actions, other than residing in the rental unit that
the Landlord provided them at the commencement of their tenancy. It is the Landlords who are responsible
for the breach of the Bylaw by failing to ensure that the rental unit complies
with all municipal standards and Bylaws prior to entering int the tenancy
agreement.
 
14.
While
I appreciate and understand the Landlord’s concerns, I find that the Tenants in
this matter have committed
no acts or conduct that would suggest an illegal act. I also not that
the Landlords have the option of addressing the illegality by obtaining the
necessary permits from the City of Brampton to make the rental unit in
compliance.
 
Conversion:
 
15. Section 50(1) of the Act states in part:
 
50 (1) A landlord
may give notice of termination of a tenancy
if the landlord requires
possession of the rental unit in order to,
 
(b) convert
it to use for a purpose other than residential premises; or
 
16. Based on the evidence before
the Board, I am not satisfied on a balance
of probabilities
that the Landlord’s intend to convert
the rental unit to non-residential use as stated
on the N13 notice.
 
17.
The Landlord’s own evidence is that once the Tenant’s
vacate, they will use the basement
unit for storage of belongings and continue to reside in the property as a
single unit. The Landlord does not intend
to convert the rental unit to a commercial or industrial unit and is essentially going to maintain the unit
in its current state.
 
18.
I
further find that using the rental unit for storage purposes does in fact
constitute residential use. In Sertic v. Mergarten,
2017 ONSC 263, the Divisional Court upheld the Board’s decision determining that
storage of personal items constitutes residential use.




 
19.
Using
the basement rental unit to store use the Landlords’ and their family’s
personal property constitutes residential usage, just not residential rental usage. As noted in Chin Wing Chung Tong Realty Co. v.
Chen, [1977] O.J. No. 2621(Ont. Co. Ct.)                                                                                                     a
landlord cannot use an N13 as a method to spread an existing use into
another part of the same premises
 
20.
As such, I am not satisfied
that the established that the Tenants
have committed an illegal
act or that the Landlord intends to convert the rental unit to non-residential
use. The Landlord’s application for
this reason must be dismissed.
 
21. This Order contains
all the reasons for this matter. No further reasons
will issue.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
 
 
January 10, 2022                                                                                                                                                  Date Issued                                                                      Fabio Quattrociocchi
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

