Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-28
File number:	
CEL-02638-21

Citation:	Ahsan v Austerberry, 2022 CanLII 127237 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jv044>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-02638-21
 
 



In the matter of:


2682 TRUSCOTT DRIVE MISSISSAUGA ON L5J2B7


 




Between:


Nida Ahsan


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Cameron Austerberry
  Charlene Austerberry


Tenants



 
 
 
Nida Ahsan (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Cameron Austerberry and Charlene Austerberry (the 'Tenants') because
the Landlord requires
possession of the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation.
This application was heard via video conference on January 20, 2022.
The following people attended the hearing:
•        
The Landlord;
•        
The Landlord’s husband, Mohammed
Ashraf;
•        
The Landlord’s legal representative, Shikha Kapoor;
•        
The second-named Tenant, ‘CA’; and
•        
The Tenants’ legal representative, Ted Watt.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
For the following reasons,
I find that the Landlord
in good faith requires possession of the rental unit for
the purpose of residential occupation.
 
2.    
The Landlord says that she, her
husband and their two children are currently living with her brother, his wife
and their two children. The Landlord says that the two families are sharing the 4-bedroom house
but it has become very crowded; one of the bedrooms has been converted into an office, the
second bedroom is for the Landlord’s brother and his wife, the third bedroom is
for the Landlord’s brother’s children and the fourth bedroom is for the
Landlord, her husband and her two children.
 
3.    
The Landlord says that they
purchased the rental property with the full intention of eventually moving in
as a family and the time has now come to make that move. The Landlord also explained that the rental property would be closer
to her workplace and they
would be closer to their circle of friends and extended family members.




 
4.    
The Landlord’s testimony was
detailed and consistent and I have no reason to disbelieve her. The Landlord’s husband
also testified at the hearing
and he confirmed the Landlord’s position that they intend to
occupy the rental unit because they are living in crowded conditions with the
Landlord’s brother and his family.
 
5.    
I would also note that CA led no evidence to establish that the
Landlord does not in good faith require possession of the
rental unit. Based on the evidence
before me, I am satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the Landlord
genuinely intends to occupy the rental unit for a period of at least
one year and the Landlord’s application should be granted.
 
6.    
The Landlord paid the Tenant compensation equal to one month's rent on
November 25, 2021.
 
7.    
I have considered all of the disclosed
circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of
the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act'). In particular, I have considered that CA is physically
disabled and receives social assistance benefits. The first-named Tenant is
CA’s 26 year-old son, who also suffers from various medical conditions that
make it difficult for him to work. CA says that the rental unit is close to the
doctors they need and is within their very limited budget.
 
8.    
While CA says she needs
significant time to find a new place to live, I have considered that the
Tenants were served with the notice of termination in September 2021 and have
already had several months to begin their search. The longer the eviction is
delayed, the longer the Landlord
is forced to stay with husband and young children
in a crowded living
situation. However, based on the Tenants’ various disabilities and limited
income, I find that it would not be unfair to postpone the eviction for an
additional month from the date of this order until March 31, 2022, pursuant to
subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act.
 
9.    
This order contains all the reasons
within it and no further reasons
will be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenants
is terminated. The Tenants
must move out of the rental unit on or before March 31, 2022.
 
2.    
If the unit is not vacated
on or before March 31, 2022, then starting April
1, 2022, the Landlord may file this order with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced.
 
3.    
Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after April 1, 2022.
 
 
February 28, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Laura Hartslief
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board




 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy,
5th Floor Mississauga ON
L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at
1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of
the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires on October 1, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

