Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-11
File number:	
CEL-93679-20; 
 CEL-01924-21

Citation:	Akwensivie v Mbah-segbaya, 2022 CanLII 100223 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jspps>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-93679-20 &
CEL-01924-21
 
 
 
 



In the
  matter of:


12 SILVERSTREAM ROAD BRAMPTON ON L6Z4L2


 




Between:


Roland Akwensivie


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Florence Mbah-segbaya


Tenant



 
 
 
Roland Akwensivie (the
'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Florence Mbah-segbaya (the 'Tenant') because
the Tenant did not pay the rent that the Tenant
owes (the ‘L1 application - CEL-93679-20).
 
The Landlord also applied
for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict the Tenant because
the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant
permitted in the residential complex has wilfully or negligently caused undue
damage to the premises.
 
The Landlord has also applied for an order
requiring the Tenant
to compensate the Landlord for the damage; because the Tenant,
another occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the
residential complex has wilfully caused undue damage to the premises and used
the rental unit or the residential complex in a manner that is inconsistent
with use as a residential premises and that has caused or can be expected to
cause significant damage.
 
The Landlord has also applied for
an order requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlord for the damage;
and because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone
the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or
another tenant. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant
remained in the unit after the termination date (the ‘L2 application -
CEL-01924-21).
 
These applications were heard by video hearing on October 1, 2021 and continued on November
30, 2021.
 
The Landlord, his Legal
Representative John Lambe,
the Tenant, and her Legal Representative
Hamid Durrani attended the hearings. The parties were assisted by
French-English Interpreter Manuel Costa.




 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Issues:
 
1.     
After some discussion with the
legal representatives, it was determined that since the Tenant has already
filed her own applications related to the rental unit, namely an application
about tenant rights (a ‘T2 application’) and a tenant application about
maintenance (a ‘T6 application’), the Tenant's Legal Representative agreed that
any arguments related to section 82 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’) would be
reserved for said hearing to avoid the duplication of process.
 
2.     
I also confirmed with the
Landlord's Legal Representative that the Landlord understood that the Act stated that maximum amount
the Landlord Tenant Board (the ‘Board’) could award was $35,000.00. The Landlord's Legal Representative
confirmed that this was understood.
 
L1 application - CEL-93679-20
 
3.     
The Tenant has not paid the total rent the Tenant
was required to pay for the period
from January 1, 2020 to November 30, 2021. Because of the arrears, the Landlord served a Notice of
Termination effective January 31, 2020.
 
4.     
The Landlord collected a rent deposit
of $1,800.00 from the Tenant and this deposit is still
being held by the Landlord.
 
5.     
Interest on the rent deposit is owing to the Tenant for the period from February 7, 2020 to January 31, 2021.
 
6.     
The Landlord testified about
his issues with the Tenant
and her failure
to pay her rent. He provided
testimony explaining the rental
arrear calculations provided to the
Board, which shared that the Tenant
owed the Landlord
$17,600.00 as of November 1, 2021.
He submitted that the Tenant stopped paying her rent on time in
January of 2020 and continued to
accrue arrears from then on.
 
7.     
The Tenant's Legal Representative
submitted that the Tenant had paid her lawful, monthly rent until May 2021. However,
he predicated this with explanation that there was confusion between the parties related
to the Landlord’s undertaking to repair the rental unit’s leaking roof and to
clean the rental unit’s garage and basement.
The Tenant's Legal Representative submitted
that since the Landlord did not address
these issues until today, the Tenant withheld rent for
June, July, August and September 2021.
 
8.     
The Tenant testified that due to
her personal circumstances and the current, on-going pandemic, she could not pay her rent on time. She didn’t pay her rent for January
2020 on time due to being
outside of Canada
at that time. She submitted that she received
a letter in December 2019, asking her to move out of the rental unit.




 
9.     
The Tenant did admit that she stopped paying rent in May of 2021 and owes arrears
from then on, estimating she owes approximately $12,200.00 and not the
$17,600.00 as alleged by the Landlord. She
did not provide rental receipts to substantiate this.
 
10.   However, the Tenant intends to pay the Landlord the rent arrears
with the assistance of a Board ordered
payment plan.
 
11.  
The Landlord refused to accept
this solution, as he testified that she had previously engaged in a payment
plan with him but refused
to comply with it and has not made any payments since May 1, 2021. As
such, he requested that the Tenant be ordered to pay all her arrears within the
standard, eleven-day period ordered by the Board.
 
12.   After considering the submissions and evidence of the
parties, based on a balance of probabilities, I find that the Tenant owes the
Landlord $17,600.00 in rental arrears from failure to pay her full rent from
January 2020 until November 1, 2021, despite making some payments on March 1, 2020, August 1, 2020, November
1, 2020, January
1, 2021,
February 1, 2021, March
1, 2021, and May 1, 2021.
 
13.   The Landlord was able to support his position with documentary evidence
and testimony, while the
Tenant only relied on her testimony. Had
the Tenant made the payments she alleged, I would
have expected her to substantiate this with proof of such, either via bank
statements, etransfer receipts or other documents.
 
L2 application - CEL-01924-21
 
Law
 
13.   Section 62(1) of the Act
states that a landlord may give a tenant notice
of termination of the tenancy if the tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or a person the tenant permits into the residential
complex wilfully or negligently causes undue damage to the rental unit or
residential complex.
 
14.  
Section 63(1)(a) of the Act states
that a landlord may give a notice of termination of the tenancy that provides a
termination date not earlier than the 10th day after the notice is given if the tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or a person whom the tenant permits in the residential complex wilfully causes
undue damage to the rental
unit or the residential complex.
 
15.   Section 64(1) of the Act states that a landlord
may give a tenant notice of termination of the tenancy if the conduct of the
tenant, another occupation of the rental unit or a personal allowed in the
residential complex by the tenant is such that is substantially interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex
for all usual purposes by
the landlord or another tenant, or substantially interferes with another lawful
right, privilege or interest of the landlord or another tenant.
 
16.   Section 207(1) of the Act states that the Board may order
payment to a party up to the limits of the jurisdiction of Small
Claims Court, which is currently $35,000.00.




 
N5 Notice &
N7 Notice for damage and substantial interference
 
17.   The Landlord served the Tenant with a Notice to End
your Tenancy for Interfering with Others, Damage or Overcrowding (the first ‘N5
Notice’) on April 13, 2021. This
notice alleged that the Tenant’s behavior, or that of someone visiting or
living with her, has substantially interfered with another tenant or the Landlord. This notice gave the Tenant 7
days to correct the problem.
 
18.   The N5 Notice also alleged
that the Tenant
had wilfully or negligently damaged
the rental unit and gave her 7
days to either repair the damaged property or pay the Landlord
$35,000.00 to address said damage. The Landlord confirmed that as of the day of the hearing, the Tenant had not fully
repaired the damage or paid the request sum for repairs. Based on this, the Landlord's Legal Representative submitted
that the Tenant did not void the N5 Notice.
 
19.   The N5 alleged that on June 2, 2020, the Landlord inspected
the rental unit and found damage to its door frame, door and door casing. It continued by stating that on March 19,
2021, the rental unit’s toilet was overflowing due to clogging and that the
Tenant did not notify the Landlord of such but continued using the clogged
toilet. The Tenant waited
until a week later, on March 26, 2021, to contact the Landlord, where she
requested a plumber.
 
20.   When the plumber
arrived at the rental unit, the Tenant
informed the plumber
that the toilet was
unclogged. By not informing the
Landlord of such, the Tenant obliged the Landlord to pay for the plumber’s
services in the amount of $219.00.
 
21.   The N5 also alleges that on April 9, 2021, the Landlord’s contractor attended the rental
unit and observed water damage to the rental unit and its garage. Said contractor provided a verbal estimate
for the repairs in the amount of $35,000.00.
 
22.   The Landlord served the Tenant with a second N5 Notice on May 18, 2021, which alleged
that the Tenant’s behavior again, was substantially interfering with another
tenant or the Landlord. This time,
the Tenant was given 7 days to
rectify the behavior and was notified
that since this was the Landlord’s second N5 related to behavior, the Landlord
could apply to the Board to evict the
Tenant.
 
23.   The second N5 alleged that the Tenant had moved her adult children into the rental unit
as well as a family of four, without informing or asking permission from the
Landlord, which the Landlord allegedly caused substantial interference to the
Landlord.
 
24.  
The Landlord also served the
Tenant with a Notice to End your Tenancy for causing Serious Problems in the
Rental Unit or Residential Complex (the ‘N7 Notice’) on May 18, 2021. The N7 notice alleges the events described in both N5 Notices, namely
the alleged
$35,000.00 in damage to the
rental unit, and the unauthorized Tenants.    The N7 also included information regarding the dispute
related to the rental unit’s
garage, which shall be addressed in the Tenant’s
applications to the Board




 
25.  
In terms of the damage to the
rental unit, the Landlord testified that the contractor stated that due to the
extent of the damage to the rental unit, the Tenant would be required to vacate
the rental unit to repair/replace the ceilings, floors, walls, plumbing and electrical.
The rental unit would also require repairs
that would have to shut off the water and hydro
to the rental unit, and that the Tenant and all her belongings would have to be
out of the rental unit for repairs to commence
 
26.  
This position was supported by the
Landlord’s photos of the damage to the rental unit, which showed that the rental unit’s
ceilings, flooring, and walls had experienced extensive water damage.
 
27.   The Landlord also provided the Board with a copy of a letter from his insurance company, Winmar, dated May 2021. This letter, addressed to the Landlord, informed him that in
order for his insurance company to proceed with the required repairs on the
rental unit, Winmar would require that the Tenant and all contents belonging to her be removed from
the home. Winmar estimated that it
would take approximately 6-8 weeks to make the required repairs, and that the
rental unit would not be accessible by anyone except Winmar employees and the
property owner.
 
28.   The Landlord was asked
about whom would be paying for the repairs to the rental unit. The Landlord
testified that his insurance company would be paying to repair the damages. He also submitted
that he is responsible for paying the $1,000.00 deductible for Winmar to begin the repairs
to the rental unit.
 
29.   The Landlord submitted that this was not the first
time the Tenant had caused water damage to the rental unit by overflowing the
toilet; as a few months earlier, the Tenant’s daughter blocked the toilet by accident
when she flushed a sponge down the drain. As
a result of this, the residential complex faced extensive
flooding on the upper level, with the Tenant spending all night cleaning up
the water.
 
30.   The Landlord reminded
the Board that this also resulted in flooding to the lower levels of the residential complex, which
substantially interfered with the Landlord’s and the other tenants reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex
and his lawful rights, privileges and interests by causing
significant damage to the residential complex.
 
31.  
The Tenant did not deny that the rental
unit flooded and experience severe
damage as a result of the toilet overflowing on
March 19, 2021. However, she took the
position that the damage to the
rental unit was not caused wilfully or negligently. She testified that on
March 19, 2021 around 11:00PM, she heard her a “boom”; she found her adult,
special- needs son had fallen next to the toilet. She also that the toilet was blocked and overflowing.
 
32.   Her son informed her that he used the toilet, without
toilet paper but it overflowed. The
Tenant called her older son and neighbour to address the overflowing toilet.
The Tenant, her older son and
neighbour stayed up all night and morning on March 19 and 20, 2021, trying to
clean up the mess.




 
33.   The Tenant continued
by stating that her neighbour
suggested they call a plumber
due to the possibility of
water damage. As a result, the Tenant
shut off the water. However, to her
surprise, the Tenant said the toilet overflowed, while the Tenant was away from
the rental unit. As a result, the
Tenant called her own plumber.
 
34.   The Tenant stated that the plumber came to the rental
unit, and suggested that the Tenant call the Landlord to have his own plumber,
who is hopefully familiar with the residential complex’s plumbing system,
assess the issue, since the Tenant’s plumber determine the issue to be systemic
within the residential complex. When
the Tenant allegedly called the Landlord, the Landlord sent her a list of
plumbers, to which she replied that she had already done so. The Tenant stated that the Landlord
brought a plumber in later on, but the Landlord allegedly told this plumber
that the water in the residential unit’s plumbing
system often overflowed and that he was aware of this issue.
The Tenant said after the plumber visited, the issue was addressed, and she
made repairs to the rental unit and continued to live there.
 
35.   The Tenant denied that the damage to the rental unit’s
door was caused wilful or negligently by her and instead submitted that this
issue with the door damage pre-dates her occupancy of the rental
unit. The Tenant's
Legal Representative reminded
the Board that the Landlord
had not provided photos of before the Tenant rented the rental unit, meaning
that the Landlord had not met his burden of proof as the moving party to this application.
 
36.   The Tenant did not deny that she had her adult children
and eventually, another
family, residing in the rental unit. However, the Tenant's Legal
Representative challenged the Landlord to identify how exactly this substantially interfered with his or another
tenant’s rights.
 
37.   In terms of the substantial interference alleged by
the Landlord in the N5s served on the Tenant
related to the Tenant having unauthorized occupants
or an unauthorized sublet of the rental unit, normally this kind of
application would be dealt with via an Application about a Sublet or an
Assignment (an ‘A2 Application’). In
this case, the Landlord has chosen to proceed via N5, a voidable Notice. In this case, the N5 was not voided. The Landlord also served an N7 in relation
to this.
 
38.   However, after considering the submissions and
evidence, based on a balance of probabilities, I was not persuaded that the
Tenant’s actions, namely having others move into the rental unit, substantially
interfered with the Landlord or another tenant in the residential complex.
The Landlord did not present
substantial evidence in relation to this,
namely what kind of impact this was having on the Landlord and/or other tenants
in the residential complex. Without this information, the Landlord has not met
his burden of proof as the applicant to this matter.
 
39.   In terms of the wilful
or negligent damage
to the rental, allegedly caused
by the Tenant as described
in the N5 and N7 notices, after considering the evidence and submissions of the
parties, based on balance of probabilities, I was not persuaded that the damage
caused by the Tenant was wilful or negligent, or wilfully causes undue damage
to the




 
rental unit. Though it is not denied that the Tenant’s
rental unit overflowed and caused extensive damage to both the rental unit and
residential complex, the Landlord, who is the
applicant in this matter, has not convinced me that the actions of the Tenant
leads up to and after the
toilet overflowing incidents of March 2021 constitutes wilful or negligent
damage to the rental unit.
 
40.   Though it is unfortunate that the Tenant did not
contact the Landlord immediately following the initial incident with the toilet
on March 19, 2021, the Tenant offered what I would characterize as a reasonable explanation for her actions.
I believed her testimony
related to the water damage caused to the rental unit, and that this occurred
by accident and not a result of wilful or negligent damage. Furthermore, the fact that the Tenant,
using her own time and finances, tried to address the situation herself hired
her own plumber motivated me to make such a finding.
 
41.   I was also not persuaded that the costs of repairing
the rental unit’s door issues and the Landlord having to pay for the plumber to come to the rental
unit despite the toilet’s clog being addressed qualified as wilfuly
or negligently damaged in the sense that the Act intended. Though I
believe that the rental unit’s
door is damaged, the Landlord was not able to demonstrate on a balance of probabilities that
this damage was caused by the Tenant’s wilful, negligent or wilfully caused
undue damage.
 
42.   In terms of the Tenant
substantially interfering with the Landlord
and other tenants
in the residential complex by
causing substantial damage to the rental unit by overflowing the toilet on
March 19, 2021, after considering the submissions and evidence of the parties,
based on a balance of probabilities, I find that the Tenant did substantially
interfere with the Landlord’s reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex
for all usual purposes.
 
43.   I was persuaded that the Tenant’s
actions, namely the fact that the Tenant’s
occupant, her son, allowed the toilet to overflow while the Tenant was
in the possession of the rental unit and failed to inform the Landlord
substantially interfered with the Landlord’s rights, namely by causing
significant damage to the residential complex and rental
unit which requires the Tenant to vacate the rental unit.
 
44.   In this case,
after hearing testimony
from the Landlord
and Tenant, viewing
the extensive damage to the
rental unit, and reading the correspondences from the Landlord’s insurer
regarding the rental unit, I was persuaded that the rental unit will require ample repairs in order for it to be suitable for
renting purposes as a result of the Tenant’s actions.
 
45.  
Furthermore, the Tenant does not
deny that the incident occurred, and was fully understanding that the Landlord
may require her to vacate the rental
unit as a result.
Based on this, the Tenant’s tenancy is terminated.




 
Section 83 of the
Act
 
14.   The Tenant submitted that the Board ought to consider
the fact that her Landlord assaulted her and because
of the issues from her T2 and
T6 applications. Since those matters are already scheduled to the heard by the Board, I will put less weight
on them.
 
15.   The Tenant submitted that she understood she was
legally obligated to pay her rent.                                                                                                                                     As stated above, based on the significant
arrears accrued, she wished to engage in a payment plan with her Landlord.
 
16.  
In the event she was evicted,
the Tenant submitted
she was looking to leave the rental unit.
 
17.   She was invited to make submissions regarding who
lived in the rental unit, where she revealed she lives there with her children,
ages twenty-two, twenty and eighteen. She
also submitted that one of her children
has special needs.
Since his school
was next to the rental unit, she had concerns about
moving.
 
18.   As stated above, the Landlord had serious concerns
about the on-going financial prejudice caused by the Tenant occupying the
rental unit and failing to pay rent. As
a result of her actions, the Landlord submitted that he was obliged to pay the mortgage for the rental unit on credit as well as
taken on a second job. He also
submitted that as a result of having to take on a second job, he was unable to
spend time with his family. Since the Tenant had previously failed to engage
with a payment plan, the Landlord requested that the Board issue a standard
eviction.
 
19.   I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to postpone the
eviction until March 13, 2022 pursuant to subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act.
 
20.   I find that this delay
takes into consideration the significant financial prejudice incurred by the Landlord over the course of 2021
while also taking into account the Tenant’s family situation, specifically
involving her special needs son and his schooling. This delay will afford the Tenant time to find suitable
alternative accommodations.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     
The tenancy
between the Landlord
and the Tenant is terminated, as of March 13, 2022. The Tenant must move out of the
rental unit on or before March 13, 2022.
2.     
The Tenant shall
pay to the Landlord $23,710.16*, which represents compensation for the use of the unit from May 4, 2021 to March 13, 2022, less the rent deposit and interest
the Landlord owes on the rent deposit.
3.     
The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord
$175.00 for the cost of filing the L1 application.
 
4.     
The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord
$201.00 for the cost of filing the L2 application.




 
 
5.     
If the Tenant does not pay the
Landlord the full amount owing* on or before April 13, 2022, the Tenant will start to owe interest.
This will be simple interest
calculated from April 14, 2022
at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
6.     
If the unit is not vacated
on or before March 13, 2022, then starting March 14, 2022, the
Landlord may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so
that the eviction may be enforced.
 
7.     
Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord, on or after March 14, 2022.
 
 
 
February
11, 2022 Date Issued
Stephanie Kepman
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy,
5th Floor Mississauga ON
L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of
the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires on August 19, 2022 if the order
has not been filed on or before
this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.
 
*           Refer to section
A on the attached Summary
of Calculations.




Schedule 1 SUMMARY
OF CALCULATIONS
 
File Number: CEL-93679-20
 
A.        Amount the Tenant must pay
:
 



Reasons for amount
owing


Period


Amount




Arrears: (up to the termination date
in the Notice of
  Termination)


January 1, 2020 to January
31, 2020


$3,600.00



 



Plus compensation: (from the day
after the termination date
in the Notice
to the date of the order)


February 1, 2020 to March
13, 2022


$23,710.16




Less the rent
deposit:


 


-$1,800.00




Less the interest owing on the rent deposit:


February 7, 2020 to January
31, 2020


$0.65



 



Additional costs the Tenant must pay to the Landlord:


$175.00




Additional costs the Tenant must pay to the Landlord:


$200.00



 
 
 



Total the Tenant
must pay the Landlord


$25,885.81



 

