Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-24
File number:	
CEL-02617-21

Citation:	Sivakumar v Woodward, 2022 CanLII 78826 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrpzt>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CEL-02617-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


1, 136 VICTORIA STREET E ALLISTON ON
  L9R1K6


 




Between:


Ponnuthurai Sivakumar


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Tyler Woodward


Tenant



 
 
 
Ponnuthurai Sivakumar (the
'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Tyler
Woodward (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant or another occupant of the rental
unit has committed an illegal act or has carried out, or permitted someone to carry
out an illegal trade, business or occupation in the rental
unit or the residential complex
involving the production of an illegal drug,
the trafficking in an illegal drug or the possession of an illegal drug for the
purposes of trafficking. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day
the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by video/teleconference on January 6, 2022.
 
The Landlord and the Tenant attended
the hearing. The Tenant
consulted with tenant duty
counsel before the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Landlord served the Tenant a Notice of Termination
N6 because the Tenant has committed an illegal act involving the production of
an illegal drug or trafficking in an illegal
drug or possession of an illegal
drug for the purposes of trafficking in the rental unit or residential complex
pursuant to section 61 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’).
 
2.     The Landlord alleged
that the Tenant was growing six marijuana plants on the premises.
The maximum amount allowed under the law is four plants.
 
3.     Section 61 of the Act states :
 
Termination for cause, illegal
act
61
(1) A landlord may give a tenant notice of
termination of the tenancy if the tenant or another occupant of the rental unit
commits an illegal act or carries on an illegal trade, business or occupation or permits a person to do so in the rental unit or the residential
complex. 2006, c. 17, s. 61 (1).




 
Notice
(2)   
A
notice of termination under this section shall set out the grounds for
termination and shall provide a termination date not earlier than,
(a)                      
the
10th day after the notice is given,
in the case of a notice grounded
on an illegal act, trade, business or occupation
involving,
(i)          
the production of an illegal
drug,
(ii)        
the trafficking in an illegal
drug, or
(iii)       the possession of an illegal
drug for the purposes of trafficking; or
(b)                      
the 20th day after the notice
is given, in all other cases. 2006, c. 17, s. 61 (2).
Definitions
(3)    In this section,
“illegal drug” means a controlled substance or precursor as those terms are defined
in the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act (Canada); (“drogue
illicite”)
“possession” has the same meaning as in the Controlled Drugs
and Substances Act (Canada); (“possession”)
“production” means,
with respect to an illegal
drug, to produce
the drug within
the meaning of the
Controlled Drugs and Substances Act (Canada);
(“production”)
“trafficking” means, with respect
to an illegal drug, to traffic in the drug within the meaning of the Controlled Drugs and Substances
Act (Canada). (“trafic”) 2006, c.
17, s. 61 (3).
 
4.    
The Landlord presented photographs
of what the Landlord considered to be marijuana plants cultivated by the Tenant. According to the Landlord,
he took the photographs to the
local police station and was told by the police that the plants in the
photographs were marijuana plants.
 
5.     The Tenant acknowledged that he grew one marijuana
plant, but no more than that. According to the Tenant, the plants depicted
in the photographs were weeds growing in the garden.
 
6.    
On any application before the
Board the person who alleges any particular incident or event occurred has the
burden of leading sufficient evidence to establish that it is more likely than not that their version
of events is true.
In this instance the burden
of proof is on
the Landlord.
 
7.     For the reasons
below and based
on the evidence before me, I am not satisfied that the Landlord
met the burden of proof.
 
8.     Upon close review of the photographs presented by the
Landlord, I am of the view that the photographs depict weeds growing
in the garden, rather than marijuana plants,
with the exception of the one plant that the Tenant conceded he was
growing.
 
9.     I do not give weight to the hearsay evidence of the
police, as no one from the police department
confirmed in person
or in writing that they have examined
the photographs and come to a
conclusion that the plants shown were marijuana plants.
 
10.  As such, I find that the Tenant
was growing one marijuana
plant, which is not against
the law.




 
11.  Accordingly, the Landlord
application must be
dismissed.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s application is
dismissed.
 
 
 
 












January 24, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Jana Rozehnal
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

