Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-14
File number:	
CET-96279-20

Citation:	Dickson v Rowe, 2022 CanLII 100327 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jspq9>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CET-96279-20
 
 



In the matter of:


UPPER, 28 ARDGLEN DRIVE BRAMPTON ON L6W1V2


 




Between:


Roxane Dickson


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Karey Rowe Vivette
Rowe


Landlords



 
 
 
Roxane Dickson (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Karey Rowe and Vivette Rowe (the 'Landlords') substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential complex by the Tenant or by a member of the Tenant's household.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on December 2, 2021 at 12:13 P.M. The Tenant and the Landlords
attended the hearing.
The Tenant spoke with Duty Counsel prior to the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The residential complex contains
two rental units. The Tenant
resides in the upper
level, and the second unit is in the basement.
The tenancy began on January
1, 2020, and the Tenant continues to live in the rental
unit. The rent is $2200.00 per month.
 
2.    
She submitted this application on October 1, 2020, alleging
substantial interference with reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit, and is requesting an abatement of $11,000.00.
 
3.    
Additionally, the Tenant was seeking the eviction
of the basement tenant. The Board has
no authority to grant such a remedy and in any event this issue is now moot, as the lower tenant has moved out.




 
Tenant’s evidence and submissions
 
4.    
The Tenant testified there were 3 primary
concerns: waste disposal/garbage; smoking, and noise complaints. All of these concerns relate to
the conduct of the tenants who resided in the basement rental unit during the
period of approximately May 2020-April 2021.
 
5.    
The Tenant advised the Landlord on September
13, 2020, about all these issues of concern, just prior to submitting her
application to the Board.
 
6.    
The Tenant alleged that the basement unit tenant was frequently smoking
cigarettes and cannabis inside
the rental unit.
 
7.    
The Tenant also alleged the
basement unit tenant frequently played loud music and movies at loud levels
late at night, and
regularly yelled without
regard to the impact on the
Tenants upstairs. The Tenant submitted a letter from a municipal by-law officer
related to a noise complaint which occurred on November 25, 2021. There is
extensive audio evidence of excessive screaming, yelling and persistent
aggressive and loud conduct from the rental unit below.
 
8.    
The Tenant testified that despite assurances from the Landlord
that they were dealing
with her numerous complaints, the noise problems from the basement tenant, and
persistent smoking, continued well into mid-February 2021.
 
9.    
The matter of garbage
and debris outside the rental unit was also of
serious concern, and the
Tenant submitted that there was evidence of rodent activity and feared the
potential of the problem could impact
the interior of the rental unit. She submitted photo evidence to the Board of
this ongoing problem, dating back to July 2020, and September 2020 to March
2021. The Tenant submitted that on March 8 and 25, 2021, there was evidence of
rodents due to garbage and debris, and there was no response from the Landlords
when it was brought to their attention.
 
10. 
The Tenant testified that on April
1, 2021, when she made another attempt have the Landlords address
rodent activity around
the garbage outside,
the Landlord advised
her that it was not the Landlord’s responsibility to remove the basement
Tenant’s garbage, and denied any knowledge of the problem.
 
11. 
The basement tenant eventually moved out of the basement
rental unit in April 2021,
which resolved some problems prior to the sale of the home in May 2021.
 
12. 
The Tenant testified that the cumulative impact of these 3 complaints over the extended
period between May 2020 to April 2021, substantially interfered with her and
her daughter’s enjoyment of the rental unit.
 
13. 
During the Landlord’s cross
examination, the Landlord accused the Tenant of taping sexual encounters of the basement tenant, but the Tenant
denied this and there was no
evidence submitted support this allegation.




 
14. 
The Tenant's witness, Ms. Riana
Thomas (Tenant’s daughter), testified about constant noise problems, smoking
and loud movies, evident in all rooms in the upper rental unit, coming from the basement
tenant at different times of the day. Additionally, she testified that
this created anxiety, and stress for her, as she was a student and had
difficulty during her senior year. She also testified the Tenant had to bring
excess garbage from the lower unit tenant to her work for disposal.
 
Landlord’s evidence and submissions
 
15. 
The Landlord testified that she
would regularly address the noise problem by communicating with the tenant
living in the basement unit, and that would usually be addressed with a volume
reduction by the tenant. The Landlord asserted the alleged noise by-law
violation from the municipality was unwarranted, because a 2-year-old child also lived below, and that may have contributed to the noise
problem. The Tenant denied ever complaining about the
2-year-old crying. The Landlord also asserted that she told the Tenant to
notify Police if there was a problem, as she believed she could not take
enforcement action herself,
and insisted that she was responsive, but did not provide any evidence that any action was taken.
 
16. 
The Landlord testified that often
the basement tenant below would keep garbage in the unit and bring out at one point in time,
which on some occasions seemed
excessive, but that there was never any evidence of a rodent
infestation. Additionally, the Landlord insisted that she was responsive to
Tenant concerns, and took the complaints very seriously, but could not provide
any evidence that she took any action related to the smoking complaints. The Tenant acknowledged the Landlord acted accordingly in some instances.
The Law
 
17. 
Section 22 of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 states as follows:
 
22 A landlord shall not at any
time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit and before the day on which
an order evicting the tenant is executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all usual purposes by a
tenant or members of his or her household.
 
18. 
Additionally, as set out in the
Divisional Court decision of Hassan v. Niagara Housing Authority, [2000]
O.J. No. 5650,
the landlord has a positive
obligation to provide a tenant with quiet enjoyment and take reasonable actions against
another tenant that denies a neighbouring tenant enjoyment of the premises.
 
Analysis
 
 
19. 
Based on the evidence
and testimony of the
parties, and on the balance
of probabilities, I find that there is sufficient evidence
from the Tenant,
and the Tenant's
witness testimony, to establish that the Landlord substantially
interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit by failing to
respond to the Tenant’s justified complaints about the conduct




 
of the basement tenants.
The Landlord failed
to take reasonable measures to address the ongoing garbage problems, to
address the smoking concerns and finally, to take more effective measures to
remedy the noise problems, all stemming from the basement tenant.
 
20. 
I find there are numerous emails,
texts and audio recordings that establish the ongoing nature of noise and
garbage problems, that were not adequately addressed by the Landlord. The
detailed email and photo evidence from the Tenant establish that on multiple occasions she informed the Landlord about garbage issues,
smoking and noise levels emanating from the basement
rental unit. It is quite evident to me that the Landlord’s efforts to address these problems were unreasonably limited and ineffective.
 
21. 
Additionally, the Landlord’s assertions that it was not her responsibility to deal with noise
problems, is in my view, a direct disregard of the Act, and warrants the
following remedies.
 
22. 
The Landlord shall pay to the
Tenant an abatement of $300.00 per month for a period of 11 months
from May 2020 to March
2021. I find that this amount represents a reasonable level
of abatement when assessing the cumulative adverse impact of the disturbing
conduct on the Tenant who had to endure these challenges over the course of 11
months. The total amount the Landlord shall pay is $3300.00.
 
It is ordered
that:
 
1.    
The Landlords shall pay to the Tenant
a rent abatement the amount
of $3300.00, by February 25, 2022.
 
2.    
If the Landlord does not pay the amount
owing to the Tenants by February 25, 2022, then interest will be applied. This is a
simple interest in the amount of 2% annually, commencing on February 26, 2022.
 
3.    
The Tenant has the right, at any time,
to collect the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
 
February 14, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Steven Mastoras
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

