Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-28
File number:	
CET-94775-20

Citation:	Lopes v Da Silva, 2022 CanLII 100298 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jspq7>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CET-94775-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


UPPER UNIT, 103 BACK
STREET BRADFORD ON L3Z1W8


 




Between:


Kelly Lopes Lopes Michael
  Adamo


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Laura Da Silva


Landlord



 
 
 
Elena Lopes, Kelly Lopes Lopes,
Rui Lopes and Michael Adamo (the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that Laura Da Silva (the 'Landlord') substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their household.
 
This application was heard by video
conference on December 9, 2021.
 
At 10:44 am Kelly Lopes (KL), Michael Adamo (MA), Diana Da Silva (DD)
the Landlord’s daughter and Erli
Bregu (EB) the Landlord’s Representative attended the hearing.
 
I have removed the minor
children who were listed on this matter.
 
Lack of Particulars
 
1.     The Landlords requested that the Tenants' application
be dismissed on the grounds of lack of details. Specifically, the Tenants'
application does not specify times and dates of the alleged incidents referred
to in the Tenants' application. EB stated that there is insufficient detail
in the Tenants' application to allow the Landlord to know the case being made against them.
 
 
2.     As I explained
to the Tenants at the hearing, to provide a hearing that is procedurally fair, the responding party needs to know the case to be met. The
T2 application filled out by the Tenants explicitly ask the Tenants to
described alleged events, provide dates and times of the alleged events, and
list who was involved in the events leading the application.




 
3.    
Following the submissions from the
Landlord’s Representative regarding his noted deficiencies of the application, I then explained to the Tenants the issue of the lack of dates
and particulars and invited submissions from the Tenants.
The Tenants did not
address the lack of specificity in the application.
 
4.    
I also informed the parties that I
would proceed in hearing the merits of the case but reserving my decision
on the lack of particulars and that my decision would
be further explained in the
order.
 
 
Determinations and Reasons:
 
T2 Application:
 
5.     On June 12, 2020, the Tenants filed a T2 application
alleging that the basement tenants caused significant noise, harassment, drugs, violent activity
and smoking in the rental
unit and that the Landlord did not properly respond to complaints made
by the Tenants.
 
6.    
The Tenant’s
T2 application is based on s.22 of the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) which states:
 
A landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s
occupancy of a rental unit and before the
day on which an order evicting the tenant is executed substantially interfere
with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all usual purposes by a
tenant or members of his or her household.
 
7.    
The Tenants
are seeking a rent abatement, proof of utility
bills, rent differential, moving and storage expenses.
 
 
Analysis:
 
8.     I find that the allegations in the Tenants
application are vague and lack any context
in terms of dates and details. Specifically, the “Explain Your Reasons”
section of the application instructs the applicant to describe what happened, the dates and times of each event, who caused the problem and the names and titles of all
people involved.
 
9.    
On the L2 application the only date referenced is April 15, with no year provided. The list of allegations that follow are summarized as: the basement
tenants were loud, used drugs, violent, smoking and health risk to Tenant’s
daughter, fear of being at home, antagonized by the tenants, physical threats,
drinking and lack of response from Landlord.
 
10.  It is not for the Landlord or the
Board to assist the Tenant in completing their applications or
correcting its deficiencies. As with all applications before the Board, it is
the applicant who must bring an application that meets minimum requirements.




 
11.  The Landlord’s right to present a meaningful defence
in a timely fashion must also be taken into consideration. The application does not contain
sufficient details on any of the
alleged grounds that would allow the matter to be fairly heard.
 
12. 
The Landlord
would have experienced significant prejudice if expected to present a defence against unknown and unspecified
allegations.
 
13.  Accordingly, the Tenant’s
application is dismissed.
 
14. 
This order contains of the reasons
for the decision within it. No further
reasons shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.      
The Tenants application is
dismissed.
 
 
 
February 28, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Dana Wren
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert
Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor
Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

