Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-07
File number:	
CET-94561-20

Citation:	Burnett v Aujla, 2022 CanLII 87956 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js3ng>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Sections 30 and 31
Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CET-94561-20
 
 



In the matter of:


63 DAVID STREET,
RM 3 BRAMPTON ON L6X1J6


 




Between:


Chris Burnett


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Avtar Aujla


Landlord



 
 
 
Chris Burnett (the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that Avtar Aujla (the 'Landlord') failed to meet the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety,
housing or maintenance standards (the ‘T6 application’).
 
The Tenant also applied for an
order determining that the Landlord harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened
or interfered with the Tenant, entered the rental unit illegally, altered the
locking system on a door giving entry to the rental unit or residential complex
without giving the Tenant replacement keys and substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or by a member
of the Tenant's household (the ‘T2 application’).
 
This application was heard via video conference on June 10, 2021, and October 28,
2021.
 
The Tenant, the Tenant’s
legal representative, Daniel
Ambrosini, and the Landlord
attended the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Issues:
 
a)    
The Rental Unit
 
1.    
The residential complex is a
rooming house with 6 numbered bedrooms that are each rented by a different tenant. There is no dispute that the Tenant’s
initially tenancy was for
a unit in the basement. He then moved our of that unit several months later and
entered into a new tenancy agreement for unit #3.




 
2.    
The first issue before me is to determine which rental unit should properly
appear on the Tenant’s applications.
 
3.    
The Tenant filed the T2 and T6
applications together on May 21, 2020, pursuant to s. 186(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).
Neither identifies a rental unit. Both applications simply list the
street address as if the residential complex was the Tenant’s rental unit.
 
4.    
If the Tenant’s applications and
allegations only pertained to one single tenancy, then I would simply have
amended the application to identify the rental unit. But the Tenant makes allegations with respect to both
tenancies within the same application. This is not permitted
under the Act.
 
5.    
The reason this is an issue is
because applications under the Act are with respect to a single tenancy
unless otherwise specified. This is because
covenants run with the land. (See s. 18.)
 
6.    
There are some exceptions specifically
set out in the Act. The exceptions involve those situations where
logic dictates a single application may involve several
tenants. Because several
tenants are involved the application necessarily involves multiple tenancies.
For example, s. 186(2) allows for multi-tenant applications – two or more
tenants of a residential complex can file a single application provided every
tenant signs it. Section 126 permits a landlord to apply for an above guideline
rent increase simultaneously against multiple tenants of a residential complex
in a single application. But there is
no provision of the Act that contemplates a tenant filing a single application
with respect to multiple tenancies.
 
7.    
This reality is reflected in the
Board’s fee structure. The application fees payable for applications filed
pursuant to s. 186(2) and s. 126 depend on the number
of tenancies involved.
 
8.    
As a result, on December 13, 2021,
I issued interim order CET-94561-20-IN in which I put
this discrepancy to the Tenant and requested written submissions on or before
January 13, 2022. The Tenant’s legal representative then responded by
submitting a request to amend each application twice. The Tenant requested the
consent of the Board to amend the T2 and T6 applications to refer to the
basement unit and amend an additional copy of the T2 and T6 applications to
refer to bedroom #3. In short, rather than choose which rental unit the Tenant
wished to include on the application, he attempted to circumvent the intent of
the Act and the Board’s fee structure and filing process by “amending” the
applications to include both rental units.
 
9.    
As I outlined in my interim order,
if the Tenant wished to pursue remedies regarding two different rental units
back in May 2020, he should have initially filed a T2 and T6 application
referring to the basement unit and an additional T2 and T6 application
referring to the bedroom unit #3. If the Tenant
filed the applications properly in May 2020, the
Board would have requested a second filing fee and would
have created a second file number for the second rental unit. The Tenant cannot now simply
request to “amend” the applications to include both tenancies.




 
10. 
Given all of the above, I am
amending the applications on my own notice to refer to the tenancy of unit #3 alone. The majority of the allegations relate to the time period after the tenancy for unit #3 began and as
stated below, the allegations that do relate to the basement unit would not
result in an order in the Tenant’s favour.
 
b)    
The Basement Unit
 
11.  
As stated above and for the sake of completeness,
even if I were to grant the Tenant’s
request to amend the T2 and T6 applications to include the basement unit, those
applications would be dismissed anyway.
 
12.  
With respect to the T6
I say this because, according
to the Tenant, he complained to the Landlord in
January 2019 about a bedbug problem in the basement and, in response to this
complaint, the Landlord offered the Tenant the option of moving into bedroom
#3. Although the Tenant
says this was a temporary solution until the basement
was properly treated, the Tenant
provided insufficient evidence at the hearing to establish that the arrangement
was temporary or that there were any plans for him to move back into the
basement unit after he left. I am therefore not satisfied that the parties
intended the Tenant’s move to bedroom #3 to be temporary.
 
13.  
If it is true that the Landlord
offered the Tenant a different rental unit in response to his bedbug complaint,
then I find that the Landlord responded in a timely and effective manner to the Tenant’s
complaint. As a result, even if the tenancy for the basement
unit was properly before
the Board, the allegations
in the T6 related to that tenancy
would be dismissed.
 
14.  
Although the Tenant has additional
allegations regarding his belongings in the basement unit in the T2, those
allegations stem from events that occurred after he moved upstairs and began a
new tenancy with the Landlord. Once the Tenant moved upstairs, the basement
tenancy ended, a new tenancy began regarding bedroom #3, and the Board’s
jurisdiction with respect to new events that occurred
after the move is only with respect
to bedroom #3.
 
15.  
For these reasons, even if I consented to the Tenant’s
request to include
the basement unit in his
applications, they would have been dismissed.
 
The T6 Application: Bedbugs
in Bedroom #3
 
a)    
August 2019 to January
2020
 
16.  
Based on the text messages between
the parties, I am satisfied that the Tenant obtained possession of bedroom #3
on August 15, 2019, when the Landlord’s husband provided the Tenant with the
keys.
 
17.  
The parties agree that there was a
bedbug problem throughout the house and the Landlord admits that she was
notified about the problem sometime in August 2019. The Landlord then says she began to investigate the extent of the problem
to determine which rooms were infested and what she should do to address
the issue. By the Landlord’s
own




 
admission, she was unsure what
steps to take, especially since other residents in the house refused to allow
her access to their units to investigate the problem. It was not until the Tenant
contacted a municipal by-law officer in January 2020 that the Landlord
was able to have a discussion with them and attempt to find a resolution.
 
18.  
Based on the Landlord’s own admission, I am satisfied
that the Landlord
failed to respond to the bedbug problem in a timely
and effective manner for the time
period of August 2019 to January 28, 2020. The Landlord admits that she was
unsure how to proceed but, rather than seek legal advice or call the LTB for
additional information, she took very few steps to try to treat the problem
between August 2019 and January
2020. As the Landlord breached her obligations under
the Act during this time period, I find that this portion of the Tenant’s
application should be granted. The quantum of remedies will be discussed below.
 
b)    
January 2020 to November
2020
 
19.  
After meeting the by-law officer
in January 2020, the Landlord says she began to understand what steps she must take to address
the bedbug problem in the house.
While the Tenant says that he fully co-operated with the Landlord’s efforts to
treat the bedbug problem, the Landlord disagrees. For the following reasons, I
find that the Landlord took reasonable efforts to address the bedbug problem but the Tenant failed
to co-operate and this portion of the applications
should therefore be dismissed.
 
20.  
The Landlord provided the Board with copies
of the following documents which confirm that she attempted
to address the bedbug problem and the Tenant failed
to co-operate:
 
•       
January 28, 2020 – Notice to Tenants in the house “I would like to inform that
bedbug inspection is scheduled on January 29, at 5pm by the pest control technician.”
•       
January 30, 2020 – Text message to the Tenant
“bedbug treatment will be on February 1, from 11am to 9pm”
•       
January 30, 2020 – Notice to all Tenants in the house “I would like to inform
you that pest control treatment (bed bugs) is scheduled on Sunday, February 2
between 12 to 6pm. Please prepare you (sic) rooms according to the
attached sheet, as per pest control technician…”
•       
February 2, 2020 – Pest Control Technician Report – “Came to do the
bedbug inspection and treatment. Units no. 1 – 3 – 4 – 5 refused access…No inspection
and treatment done.” [Emphasis added.]
•       
February 18, 2020 – Order
issued by the City to address
the bedbug problem by March 9, 2020.
•       
February 21, 2020 – Notice to all Tenants in the house “I would like to inform you that pest control treatment (bed bugs)
is scheduled on Tuesday, February 25, 2020 between 12 to 6pm. The Tenants are
responsible to prepare their unit according to the preparation sheet attached
with the notice…”
•       
February 25, 2020 – Pest Control Technician Report – “Room no. 2 no access; room no. 4 attic, stairs no
access; room no 3 have access. Tenant put lot of white powder along the baseboards, not prepared. …as the rooms
were not prepared, no access,
unable to do the bed bug treatment.” [Emphasis added]




 
•       
March 14, 2020 – Pest Control Technician Report “…Room no. 3 not prepared;
lot of white powder along baseboard, clothes not bagged, drawers not empty…As
the Tenants not prepared and refused access, unable to do the bed bug
treatment. [Emphasis added]
 
21.  
Based on these documents, I am
satisfied that the Landlord attempted on numerous occasions to have pest control technicians treat the rental
unit and the rest
of the house. However, the Tenant
either refused to allow the technician into the unit or treatment
was not completed because the Tenant failed to properly prepare the
unit.
 
22.  
The Landlord says she had an inspector from the city scheduled to visit the rental unit on March 17,
2020, to address the bedbug issue, but the pandemic started and all
appointments were cancelled. The Landlord was then unable
to schedule an inspector or a pest control technician to attend
the unit for the next several months. During that time, the Landlord filed
applications with the Board regarding the Tenant and the other residents in the
building, some of which have yet to be resolved. The Landlord’s L1 application
against the Tenant went to a hearing and the Board issued an eviction order
which was executed by the Sheriff on November 4, 2020.
 
23.  
Based on the evidence before me, I
am satisfied that the Landlord took all reasonable steps to address the bedbug
problem in the house between January 28, 2020, and November 4, 2020, but the
Tenant and the other residents refused to co-operate. The Landlord served
proper notice to the Tenant regarding the dates and times of treatment and she
provided written instructions regarding how to prepare his unit. Despite her
efforts, the Tenant refused to all the technician access to the unit and failed to prepare the unit as instructed. Once the pandemic
started in mid-March, the Landlord was unable to schedule additional treatment sessions due to the restrictions and lockdowns that were
in place. As the Landlord attempted to address the bedbug issue in the house, I
find that she has not breached her obligations under the Act and this portion
of both the T2 and the T6 applications is dismissed.
 
c)     
Remedies for August 2019 to January
2020
 
24.  
The Tenant is claiming
the following remedies
for this time period; abatement of the rent in the amount of $4,400.00, out of
pocket expenses in the amount of $225.00, repair costs which the Tenant
completed in the amount of $150.00.
 
25.  
I
would also note that
the Tenant is claiming property
damage expenses in the amount of
$3,830.00 but that claim is
related to alleged damage that the Landlord caused to the belongings the Tenant
which he left in the basement unit after he moved out. For the reasons already
stated, any allegations relating to the basement unit the
Tenant moved into bedroom #3
in August 2019 are dismissed.
 
26.  
Regarding the abatement, the Tenant admits
that he stopped
paying rent to the Landlord beginning in January 2020 and for
the remainder of 2020. Although the Tenant paid the outstanding arrears into
the Board at one point, those arrears were paid out to the Tenant. As the Tenant
has already essentially received a 100% abatement for the month




 
of January, no additional abatement can flow for that month. Instead,
any abatement that I grant will recognize the period of
August 15, 2019, to December 31, 2019.
 
27.  
Based on the evidence before me, I
am satisfied that the bedbug problem was not an extreme infestation, but it did
represent some disruption to the Tenant. For example, the Tenant provided three
videos taken on January 25, 2020, February 18, 2020, and February 19, 2020, that each show one dead bedbug. While I recognize
that these videos were taken
outside the time period in question, I find
that they accurately reflect the extent of the
bedbug problem for the period of
August 2019, to December 2019. Also,
the Tenant submitted pictures of bumps on his skin as well as a medical
diagnosis which confirms the bumps are bites from bedbugs. Lastly, the Tenant
testified that he had difficulty sleeping, he was itchy and he often slept at
his parents’ house because the bedbugs made the rental unit uncomfortable.
 
28.  
Based on the evidence before me
and my knowledge of similar cases, I find that an abatement of 25% adequately compensates the Tenant
for the disruption he experienced for the period of August 15,
2019, to December 31, 2019. The calculation of the abatement is as follows:
 
($500.00 x 25%) ÷ 31 Days in August
x 16 days = $64.52
for August ($500.00 x 25%) x
4 months = $500.00 for September 1, 2019 to
December 31, 2019
$64.52 + $500.00 = $564.52 total abatement
 
29.  
The Tenant is also claiming out of
pocket expenses for the bedbug sprays and other home treatments he purchased to
address the bedbug issue. Although the Tenant failed to provide any receipts to
confirm these costs, the reports from the pest control technicians do indicate
that they saw a “white powder” around the baseboards of the rental unit. This
confirms the Tenant’s testimony that he purchased some bedbug treatments and
administered them himself. In the absence of any receipts, I do find the total costs of $225.00
to be unreasonable and instead,
I find it more likely
that the Tenant spent no more than $100.00 for
these treatment for the period of August to December 2019. An order will issue
accordingly.
 
30.  
The final remedy the Tenant seeks
are the costs of repair that relate
to work he completed in the basement unit and, for the reasons already stated,
those costs are denied. I would also note that the Tenant claims
the costs of “bedbug treatments” in these repairs
costs as well, but as I have already granted a remedy for the Tenant’s out of
pocket expenses related to bedbug treatment, no further remedy is warranted.
 
31.  
Finally, the Tenant has claimed
the same quantum
of remedies on both applications, but as I find that the remedies granted in the T6 application
adequately compensate the Tenant, no additional remedy is warranted under the
T2 application.
 
The T2 Application: Harassment by the Landlord
 
32.  
The only remaining issue on the T2
application regarding bedroom #3 is the Tenant’s allegation that the Landlord
harassed him by constantly serving
notices of termination.




 
33.  
There is no dispute
that the Landlord
served the Tenant notices of termination beginning in approximately January 2020
because he was withholding his rent. There is also no dispute that the Landlord
served the Tenant and the other household residents with N5 notices of
termination for their failure to co-operate with the pest control efforts.
 
34.  
In addition to these
notices, the Tenant
says that the Landlord served him with N5 notices of termination relating to his
alleged indecent exposure in the bathroom and other “bathroom related” conduct.
 
35.  
Based on the evidence before me,
the Tenant has failed to establish that serving these notices of termination constitutes harassment. The Tenant
admits that he stopped paying rent for all of 2020 and, for this
reason, I find that the Landlord was within her rights to serve the Tenant with
N4 notices of termination. The evidence before me suggests that the Tenant
repeatedly either denied access to the pest control technicians or failed to
properly prepare his room for treatment. For this reason, I find that the
Landlord was within her rights to serve notices of termination relating to the
Tenant’s conduct. Regarding the remaining N5 notices for “indecent exposure”
and other bathroom related conduct, once again,
the Landlord was within her rights to serve these
notices and was in
fact legally obligated to serve these notices
if she had reason to believe
that the Tenant’s conduct was
interfering with the other residents in the house. In short, based on the
evidence before me, I find that the Tenant has failed to establish that the
Landlord’s service of notices of
termination constitutes harassment
contrary to section 23 of
the Act. For this reason, the
Tenant’s application is dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant a rent abatement of $564.52.
 
2.    
The Landlord shall also pay to the Tenant
$100.00 which is the reasonable out-of-pocket expenses the Tenant has incurred for bedbug
treatments.
 
3.    
The Landlord shall also pay to the Tenant
$50.00 for the costs of filing the application.
 
4.    
The total amount the Landlord owes the Tenant is
$714.52.
 
5.    
The Landlord shall pay the Tenant
the full amount
owing by February
18, 2022.
 
6.    
If the Landlord does not pay the Tenant the full
amount owing by February 18, 2022 the Landlord
will owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from February 19, 2022
at 2.00% annually on the outstanding balance.
 
 
 
February 7, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Laura Hartslief
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board




 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy,
5th Floor Mississauga ON
L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

