Metadata:
Date:	2018-02-21
File number:	
CET-70370-17; 
 CET-70509-17; 
 CEL-71395-17
	CET-70370-17; 	 CET-70509-17; 	 CEL-71395-17
Citation:	CET-70370-17 (Re), 2018 CanLII 41844 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hs062>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hs062
Content:


 
File Number: CET-70370-17
CET-70509-17
CEL-71395-17
Order under Sections 30,
31 and 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
AM (the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that BA (the
'Landlord') failed to meet the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety,
housing or maintenance standards (CET-70370-17).
 
The Tenant also applied for an order determining that the Landlord or the Landlord's agent harassed,
obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the Tenant, substantially
interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential
complex by the Tenant or by a member of the Tenant's household and withheld or
deliberately interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital service that the
Landlords are obligated to supply under the tenancy agreement (CET-70509-17).
 
The Landlord applied for an order to terminate the
tenancy and evict the Tenant because the Tenant did not pay the rent that the
Tenant owes (CEL-71395-17).
 
These applications were heard together in Barrie on February
9, 2018.
 
The Tenant and the Landlord’s
Agent, AB, attended the hearing.
 
The following witnesses testified
at the hearing:
BB (former Landlord’s assistant)
on behalf of the Tenant
LM (upper tenant) on behalf of the
Tenant
RH on behalf of the Landlord
LD (Landlord’s Service Manager) on
behalf of the Landlord
 
 
Determinations and reasons:
 
1.     
The Landlord is amended as
stated in the written tenancy agreement.
Regarding CET-70370-17
 
2.     
The issues in this
application are whether the Landlord has maintained the rental unit in a good
state of repair and fit for habitation in accordance with section 20 of the
Act.  The Tenant stated that there were numerous on-going issues, however only
the issues in the application can be considered at this hearing.   In the
application, the Tenant alleged the following:
a)   
Unfinished renovations
including: missing drywall, incomplete flooring, bathroom plumbing not
completed;
b)   
No heat;
c)   
Water leak/penetration; and
d)   
Mold. 
3.     
Subsection 20(1) of the Act
states the following:
A landlord is responsible for providing and maintaining a
residential complex, including the rental units in it, in a good state of
repair and fit for habitation and for complying with health, safety, housing
and maintenance standards.
4.     
In the recent decision in Onyskiw
v. CJM Property Management, 2016 ONCA 477 (Onyskiw), the Court of
Appeal for Ontario determined that a contextual approach should be adopted when
considering a landlord’s potential breach of subsection 20(1) of the Act and a
breach will not be found if the landlord’s response to a maintenance issue was
reasonable in the circumstances. 
5.     
The Tenant viewed the rental
unit which was under renovation on August 17, 2017.  At that time the parties
entered into a tenancy agreement for occupation as of September 1, 2017.  The
monthly rent for the unit is $1,500.00.  This application was filed on October
3, 2017.
6.     
The Tenant stated that on
September 1, 2017, she was asked to move in later in the day to allow the
workers to finish the renovations.  Upon moving into the rental unit, the
Tenant asserted that the unit was not usable.  The drywall was incomplete;
mudding, sanding and painting was still to be done.  There was missing flooring
in the hallway and kitchen.  There was no working toilet.  There were issues
with both water and hot water in the bathroom.  According to the Tenant, the
unit was not livable for approximately three weeks.   The Tenant submitted and
relied on photographs taken by herself regarding the condition of the unit in
the month of September 2017.
7.     
According to the Tenant, shortly
after the completion of the unit, on September 26, 2017, she discovered a water
under one of her daughter’s beds.  She had removed a suitcase being stored
under the bed and it was wet and moldy.  She then also discovered a puddle of
water on the floor in the master bedroom.  The Tenant submitted that three mattresses
which were on the floor in the bedrooms were damaged as a result of exposure to
water and mold. 
8.     
There was no dispute that
the Tenant contacted the Landlord’s office regarding the issue of the water
pooling.  According to the Tenant, once the sub-pump was turned on there were
no further issues of water pooling.  Although, there was evidence of water
damage in the corner of her children’s bedroom.  Someone from the Landlord’s
office attended and pulled away the trim and cut out drywall from this area. 
The Tenant stated that this area was not repaired until just before Christmas.
9.     
According to the Tenant, the
heat at the rental unit was non-existent until October 16, 2017 when a working
thermostat was installed.     However, after this time she continued to have
periodic issues with insufficient heat.  Each time there was an issue with the
furnace, the Tenant reported the issue and the Landlord’s contractor attended. 
The Tenant also confirmed that she was given space heaters to use from the
Landlord’s contractor.
10.  
The Tenant’s witness and the
Landlord’s former assistant, BB, testified that she was present on the Tenant’s
move in date of September 1, 2017.  She confirmed that the renovations at the
rental unit were not completed at that time.  She stated that drywall was still
being installed and the bathroom was not finished.  She also testified that she
was the one who removed the trim in the corner of the bedroom after the Tenant
reported a leak.  She said the area was mushy and just fell apart when
touched.  
11.  
The Tenant’s witness, the
upper unit tenant, LM, testified that there were issues with heat at the
residential complex and it was constantly having to be turned up or down during
this period of time.  
12.  
AB acknowledged that the
premises were under renovation prior to the Tenant taking possession.  He
stated that the unit was available for occupancy as of September 1, 2017.  In
support of this assertion, a copy of the occupancy permit and inspection report
provided by the Town of Midland issued September 1, 2017 was submitted into
evidence.  In response to the Tenant’s photographs, AB submitted that the
Tenant had access to the rental unit prior to taking occupancy and believed
that some of the pictures submitted by the Tenant were taken prior to September
1, 2017.  
13.  
AB also acknowledged that
there was an issue with water penetration into the unit.   He attended the unit
to view the Tenant’s alleged damage to property.  During his visit, the Tenant
did not show him the damaged mattresses or any other items.  He did see the
area of the bedroom where some drywall and trim was removed.  He confirmed that
area would be fixed once the exterior work regarding the water penetration was
completed. 
14.  
The Landlord’s property
manager as of mid-October 2017, RH, testified that he also attended the rental
unit to view the Tenant’s damaged property.  He confirmed that there were three
mattresses stacked in one of the rooms, he could not determine their age
however did notice that there was some pilling on the side of one of the
mattresses.  He further testified that there was no evidence of water
damage/staining in the master bedroom. He confirmed that the corner area of the
other bedroom still had exposed drywall.  
15.  
RH acknowledge an issue with
lack of heat reported by the Tenant.  He recalled at least two other service
requests regarding this issue.   He had a heating company attend and address
this issue each time service was requested. 
16.  
The Landlord’s current
service manager, LD, testified that he attended the rental unit approximately
6-7 times and had discussions with the Tenant regarding her issues.  He testified
that there are currently no outstanding maintenance issues at the rental unit. 
He submitted that the drywall and trim in the corner of the bedroom was
addressed within one to two weeks of the repairs to the exterior being
completed.  He could not state a date for sure.  He also acknowledged that
there were additional drywall repairs at the rental unit related to a water
leak from the furnace line.  He believed the area of the living room was
affected for this repair.  In any event, he stated that both repairs were just
cosmetic, nothing that would prevent the Tenant from living in the rental unit.
17.  
LD further acknowledged
there were heating issues at the rental unit. He was not aware of any current
heating issue.  At the hearing, the Tenant stated that there was an issue the
week prior, however LD confirmed under cross-examination that he was not made
aware of that issue.   LD testified that they responded to the Tenant’s
reported issues in a reasonable time frame.  LD further confirmed that the Tenant
was supplied with secondary heating units.
18.  
Based on the evidence before
me, I am satisfied that the Landlord breach section 20 of the Act as the rental
unit was in disrepair during the month of September 2017.  In this regard, I
preferred the testimony of the Tenant’s witness, BB, who was on site on the
Tenant’s move in date.  While although, I am satisfied that the witness, BB, is
emotional towards her former employer, I found her testimony regarding this
issue consistent, credible and corroborated the Tenant’s evidence.  In any
event, other than the inspection reports and occupancy permit submitted, AB and
the Landlord’s other witnesses did not provide direct testimony as to the
condition of the rental unit in September 2017.  
19.  
As a result of the disrepair
in the rental unit at this time the Tenant’s belongings were piled in the
middle of the rooms covered in plastic awaiting the completion of drywall and
painting.  The Tenant’s evidence was also uncontested as to the condition of
the bathroom in September 2017, specifically having no working toilet for a few
days, no hot water for a number of days, and no use of the shower for
approximately two weeks.  
20.  
The Tenant requested an
abatement of rent totalling $4,500.00 equal to three month’s rent for all the
issues in both applications.  With respect to this issue, I find a 50% abatement
for three weeks, being $562.50 ($1,500.00 x 0.75 x 0.50) to be more appropriate
in these circumstances. 
21.  
The Tenant’s uncontested
evidence that all the repair issues related to this disrepair were completed
within three weeks of the Tenant moving into the unit.  A specific timeline for
the completion of each of the repairs was not provided, however, the Tenant
confirmed that some issues were completed prior to three weeks such as the
toilet and shower.  Therefore, I am satisfied that 50% abatement for this
period is appropriate given that only the Tenant was able to occupy the unit
during this time, as her children were sent to live with their father due to
the condition of the unit.   However, since the Tenant continued to live at the
unit during this time, a full abatement of rent as requested was not warranted.
22.  
Based on the evidence before
me I am not satisfied that the Landlord breached section 20 with respect to the
issues related to heating.  There was no dispute that the Landlord responded
immediately to each of the Tenant’s complaints.  As well, the Tenant was able
to contact the Landlord’s contractor directly after hours to report any problems
with the heat, which the Tenant had done on at least one occasion.  She also
confirmed that the contractor regularly attended the unit after she reported an
issue.  In accordance with Onyskiw, a breach will not be found if the
Landlord’s response was reasonable in the circumstances.  Not only did the
Landlord’s contractor address the heating issues consistently and promptly,
they also provided the Tenant with a secondary heating source, namely space
heaters.
23.  
Based on the evidence before
me I am satisfied the Landlord breached section 20 of the Act due to the disrepair
of the drywall and trim in one area of the bedroom related to the water
penetration.  This area was not repaired by the Landlord for approximately two
months.  
24.  
The Tenant requested an
abatement of rent totalling $4,500.00 equal to three month’s rent for all the
issues in both applications.  With respect to this issue, I find a 5% abatement
for two months, being $150.00 ($1,500.00 x 0.05 x 2) to be more appropriate in
these circumstances.  The Tenant stated that this area was not repaired for
approximately two months. The Landlord’s service manager disagreed and found
that timeframe to be too lengthy but could not confirm a completion date.  Therefore,
I preferred the evidence of the Tenant. I find a 5% abatement to be appropriate
as I am satisfied that having this area in disrepair had a minimal impact on
the Tenant’s ability to occupy the premises.  This was a small area in the
corner of one of the bedrooms.  A full abatement of rent for two months is not
warranted. 
25.  
With respect to the water
penetration and mold allegations.  It was uncontested that the Landlord acted
immediately and effectively to address the water penetration issue.  Other than
this one time of water pooling in the bedrooms, there was no evidence provided
by the Tenant that the issue was on-going.  Therefore, in accordance with Onyskiw,
I am satisfied that the Landlord did not breach section 20 of the Act as he acted
reasonably with respect to the water penetration at the rental unit.  
26.  
There was no evidence
provided that the Landlord was aware of an issue with water penetration prior
to the Tenant moving into the rental unit.  The Landlord had recently purchased
this residential complex and renovated the interior.  This issue of water
penetration was unknown until it occurred.   Since, I am not satisfied the
Landlord breached section 20 of the Act, consequently, I am not considering the
Tenant’s request for costs to replace property that was damaged because the
Landlord did not maintain the rental unit or residential complex. 
27.  
In any event, the Tenant did
not substantiate the replacement costs requested.  She did not provide any
receipts for the items claimed.  She simply estimated their costs based on similar
items found on the internet.  As well, the Tenant confirmed that she received
replacement mattresses at no cost.  The amount for replacing three mattresses
representing the majority of the total amount requested by the Tenant.  
28.  
The evidence before me was
insufficient to find that there is a mold issue in the rental unit.  None of
the witnesses who attended the rental unit testified to the presence of mold. 
And the Tenant only referred to mold regarding her property damage, which she
confirmed she discarded. 
29.  
The total abatement of rent
with respect to this application is $712.50 for the period of September 1, 2017
to December 31, 2017 as stated above.
Regarding CET-70509-17
30.   The issue in this application is whether the Landlord harassed
and/or threatened the Tenant, substantially interfered with the Tenant’s
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit and withheld or deliberately interfered with the reasonable
supply of a vital service, namely heat, water and hot water that the Landlords
are obligated to supply under the tenancy agreement.  Some
of the allegations regarding substantial interference with the Tenant’s
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit related to the Landlord’s failure to
maintain the rental unit.  Those issues were addressed in application
CET-70370-17 above and any remedy given considered whether or not substantial
interference with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit was affected. 
31.   Subsection 21(1) of the Act states the following:
A
landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit and
before the day on which an order evicting the tenant is executed, withhold the
reasonable supply of any vital service, care service or food that it is the landlord’s
obligation to supply under the tenancy agreement or deliberately interfere with
the reasonable supply of any vital service, care service or food.
32.   Subsection 2(1) of the Act describes a vital service:
means
hot or cold water, fuel, electricity, gas or, during the part of each year
prescribed by the regulations, heat.
33.   Section 22 of the Act states the
following:
A
landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit and
before the day on which an order evicting the tenant is executed substantially
interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential
complex in which it is located for all usual purposes by a tenant or members of
his or her household. 
 
34.   Section 23 of the Act states the following:
A
landlord shall not harass, obstruct, coerce, threaten or interfere with a
tenant. 
35.  
There was no dispute that
the Tenant’s issues with water/hot water at the commencement of the tenancy and
heating during the tenancy were the result of disrepairs as pleaded and found
in application CET-70370-17.  Given this, as required by subsection 21(1) of
the Act, I am not satisfied that the Landlord withheld or deliberately
interfered with these vital services. 
36.  
The Tenant alleged that the
Landlord was responsible for a break-in at her unit on September 24, 2017 as
the key to the Landlord’s lock box had gone missing.  The Tenant also alleged
that the person who broke into the unit was a former contractor for the
Landlord.  The Tenant’s witness, LM, testified she heard banging in the
Tenant’s unit and the Tenant’s dog barking for long period of time on September
23, 2017.
37.  
The Tenant stated that she
came home late on September 23, 2017 to find her animals uneasy and the lights
on in her rental unit.  She contacted the police to report a possible break-in
according to the police report submitted into evidence.  The Tenant confirmed
that nothing was missing or disturbed.  
38.  
The evidence before me was
insufficient to find that the Landlord or a contractor/ employee of the
Landlord was responsible for an alleged break in at the rental unit.  The
evidence regarding this incident was inconsistent.  At the hearing, the Tenant
testified that she came home to find her lights on and her animals uneasy.  The
police report stated that the Tenant came home to also find her door unlocked. 
This was not stated at the hearing.  As well, the Tenant’s witness, BB, testified
that the Tenant had provided her with a description of a person leaving the premises
that night.   The Tenant did not testify that she had seen a person leaving her
unit nor was this reported to the police.
39.  
The Tenant also contacted
the police on October 3, 2017 to report an unwanted person at her rental unit. 
According to the Tenant, she discovered “B,” who she believed was not supposed
to be on the property, working on the exterior of the premises.  She stated
that she received an email from the Landlord advising of a property management
change and that the old property management company personnel should not be at
the premises. The Tenant’s witnesses, BB and LM, also confirmed the existence
of this email.  However, a copy of the email was not submitted into evidence.
40.  
The Landlord’s company
divided the duties of construction and property maintenance to two different
companies, one of which is owned and operated directly by the Landlord’s
company.  I find it more likely than not that the Tenant and her witnesses
confused the message in the email.  
41.  
In any event, I am not
satisfied that this person working on the exterior of the rental unit
substantially interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the
premises.  The police confirmed with “B” that he was hired by the Landlord to
work on the siding, yet the Tenant insisted that he leave the premises which he
did.  I find it more likely than not that the Tenant interfered with the
Landlord’s ability to complete repairs to the exterior of the unit by forcing
this authorized person to leave.  The Tenant confirmed that the person was not
in her rental unit.  
42.  
The Tenant alleged that when
AB attended her rental unit on September 29, 2017, he was unprofessional and
threatened her with an eviction.  She stated that AB clearly just wanted to get
this meeting at the rental unit “done and over with.”  According to her, he
kept stating “what’s the issue” even though she directed him to the issue right
in front of him.  Then he left abruptly and told her to deal with the property
manager.  She also stated that he threatened to evict her.  
43.  
The Tenant’s witness, BB,
testified that AB had asked if she would attend with him on this date, when she
responded “no,” he screamed at her to “get the Tenant out.”  BB also confirmed
that during her employment with the Landlord that AB had only attended one
other rental unit.  
44.  
AB contended that he doesn’t
attend rental units, this is the property manager’s role.  However, since the
Tenant was so unhappy, he felt he should attend personally to inspect the unit
and review the Tenant’s issues.  While at the unit, AB stated that the Tenant
maintained there was water damage in the other bedroom (master), he asked her
to show him and she never did.  
45.  
According to AB, the Tenant was
having trouble speaking as she was very emotional.  When she started texting on
her phone, he decided to leave.  She came out in tears asking him to come back
into the unit.  He returned and viewed the corner area of the one bedroom that
had some drywall and trim removed because of the water penetration.  He
confirmed with her that they are completing a foundation repair and then would
repair this area.  He will let the property management know to follow up.  
46.  
AB denied that he threatened
eviction.  He stated that he told her to pay her rent into the Board in trust
and she should call property standards.  The Landlord’s witness, RH, also
testified the Tenant regularly challenged him on everything he was saying or
doing during their interactions.  
47.  
The evidence before me was
insufficient to find that the Landlord harassed or threatened the Tenant with an
eviction on September 29, 2017.  I find it more likely than not that the
parties were simply at odds with respect to the issues at the rental unit. I
also find it more likely than not that the Tenant advised AB in this encounter
that she would be filing an application with the Board given the time of her
file date which would lead AB to advise her to pay her rent into the Board to
avoid an eviction. 
48.  
The Tenant has failed to
prove on a balance of probabilities regarding the issues in this application
that the Landlord or the Landlord’s agent harassed and/or threatened her or
substantially interfered with her reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
that of another family member.  Consequently, the application is dismissed. 
Regarding CEL-71395-17
49.  
The Tenant did not dispute
the rent arrears of $7,500.00 owing to February 28, 2018 as claimed by the
Landlord. 
50.  
The Tenant has not paid the
total rent the Tenant was required to pay for the period from October 1, 2017
to February 28, 2018.  Because of the arrears, the Landlord served a Notice of
Termination effective November 14, 2017.
51.  
The Landlord collected a
rent deposit of $1,500.00 from the Tenant and this deposit is still being held
by the Landlord.
52.  
Interest on the rent deposit
is owing to the Tenant for the period from September 1, 2017 to November 14,
2017.
53.  
The Tenant would like to
continue the tenancy.  She believed that there would be no rent arrears owing given
the issues in her application.  However, if rent arrears are found to be owing
she stated that she would need approximately one year to pay off the
outstanding amount.   She is on ODSP and receives CTC for her three children. 
She currently does not receive any support payments for the children.
54.  
AB submitted that the rent
arrears are substantial.  The Tenant has not made any payments towards the rent
since paying first and last month’s rent at the commencement of this
tenancy.    He submitted that he has previously attempted to negotiate rental
payments with her to no avail.  
55.  
Having considered all of the
disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Act, I find
that it would be unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant to subsection
83(1) of the Act.  
56.  
This is a young tenancy, the
Tenant only moved into the rental unit as of September 1, 2017 and did not pay
any rent since that time.  The rent arrears are substantial, I am not satisfied
that there is a reasonable expectation that the Tenant can pay the rent arrears
in a reasonable time frame.  A one year repayment plan is not reasonable given
that the Tenant has only lived in the rental unit for six months. 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     
Application CET-70509-17 is
dismissed.
2.     
Unless the Tenant voids the
order as set out below, the tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenant is
terminated.  The Tenant must move out of the rental unit on or before March 4,
2018.
3.     
The Tenant shall pay to the
Landlord $4,855.97*, which represents the amount of rent owing and compensation
up to February 21, 2018, less the rent deposit and interest the Landlord owes
on the rent deposit and less the amount of the abatement of $712.50, the
Landlord owes the Tenant.
4.     
The Tenant shall also pay to
the Landlord $49.32 per day for compensation for the use of the unit starting
February 22, 2018 to the date the Tenant moves out of the unit.
5.     
The Tenant shall also pay to
the Landlord $175.00 for the cost of filing the application.
6.     
If the Tenant does not pay
the Landlord the full amount owing* on or before March 4, 2018, the Tenant will
start to owe interest.  This will be simple interest calculated from March 5,
2018 at 3.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
7.     
If the unit is not vacated
on or before March 4, 2018, then starting March 5, 2018, the Landlord may file
this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may
be enforced.
8.     
Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of
the unit to the Landlord, on or after March 5, 2018.
9.     
If the Tenant wishes to void
this order and continue the tenancy, the Tenant must pay to the Landlord or to
the Board in trust:
i)        $6,962.50 if the payment is made on or before February 28, 2018, or
ii)       $8,462.50 if the payment is made on or before March 4, 2018**.
If the Tenant does not make full payment in accordance with this paragraph and
by the appropriate deadline, then the Landlord may file this order with the
Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced.
10.  
The Tenant may make a motion
to the Board under subsection 74(11) of the Act to set aside this order if they
pay the amount required under that subsection on or after March 5, 2018 but
before the Sheriff gives vacant possession to the Landlord. The Tenant is only
entitled to make this motion once during the period of the tenancy agreement
with the Landlord.
 
February 21, 2018                                                           _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Lisa
Del Vecchio
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor
Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of
the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires on September
5, 2018 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental
unit is located.
 
*           Refer to section A on
the attached Summary of Calculations.
**         Refer to section B on the
attached Summary of Calculations.




Schedule
1
SUMMARY
OF CALCULATIONS
 
File
Number: CEL-71395-17
 
A.        Amount the Tenant
must pay if the tenancy is terminated:
 



Reasons for amount owing


Period


Amount



 



 Arrears: (up to the termination date in
  the Notice of Termination)


October 1, 2017 to November 14,
  2017


$2,190.41



 



Plus compensation: (from the day after the
  termination date in the Notice to the date of the order)


November 15, 2017 to February
  21, 2018


$4,882.68



 



Less the rent deposit:


 


-$1,500.00



 



Less the interest owing on the
  rent deposit:


September 1, 2017 to November
  14, 2017


-$4.62



 



Less amount owing to the Tenant
  for abatement/rebate:


 


-$712.50



 



Amount owing to the Landlord on
  the order date:(total
  of previous boxes)


$4,855.97



 



Additional costs the Tenant must
  pay to the Landlord:


$175.00



 



Plus daily compensation owing
  for each day of occupation starting February 22, 2018:


$49.32 (per day)



 



Total the Tenant must pay the
  Landlord if the tenancy is terminated:


$5,030.97,
  + $49.32
  per day starting February 22, 2018



 
 
B. Amount the Tenant must pay
to void the eviction order and continue the tenancy:
 
1.         If the payment is
made on or before February 28, 2018:
 



Reasons for amount owing


Period


Amount



 



Arrears: 


October 1, 2017 to February 28,
  2018


$7,500.00



 



Less amount owing to the Tenant
  for abatement/rebate:


 


-$712.50



 



Additional costs the Tenant must
  pay to the Landlord:


 


$175.00



 



Total the Tenant must pay to
  continue the tenancy:


On or before February 28, 2018


$6,962.50



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.         If the payment is
made after February 28, 2018 but on or before March 4, 2018:
 



Reasons for amount owing


Period


Amount



 



Arrears:


October 1, 2017 to March 31,
  2018


        $9,000.00



 



Less amount owing to the Tenant
  for abatement/rebate:


 


-$712.50



 



Additional costs the Tenant must
  pay to the Landlord:


 


$175.00



 



Total the Tenant must pay to
  continue the tenancy:


On or before March 4, 2018


$8,462.50



 
1.     
 

