Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-10
File number:	
CET-91318-19

Citation:	CET-91318-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 55196 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpzfv>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
30, 31 AND 135
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CET-91318-19
 
 
 
 
 
SSN and BSM (the
'Tenants') applied for an order determining
that SKB (the 'Landlord') has collected or retained money
illegally (the T1
application).
 
SSN and BSM (the 'Tenants') also applied for an order determining that SKB (the
'Landlord') failed to meet the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') or failed
to comply with health,
safety, housing or maintenance standards (the T2 Application)
 
SSN and BSM (the
'Tenants') also applied for an order determining that SKB (the 'Landlord') substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a
member of their household (the T6 Application).
 
This application was heard via video conference on October 28, 2021.
 
The Tenant,
SSN (“S.N.”), the Landlord
and the Landlord’s representative JB attended
the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
T1 application
 
1.    
S.N. states
that the Landlord
did not use last month’s rent deposit of $1,000.00 to pay for the last rental period of the tenancy
and did not return the deposit to the Tenants.
 
2.    
S.N. testified
that he and his family came to Canada in February, 2018 and
began their tenancy on March
12, 2018. S.N. and the Landlord did
not enter into a formal lease




 
agreement but it was agreed that the Tenants
would pay $1,000.00 per month to the
Landlord in cash.
 
3.    
S.N. states
that he paid separate payments
totalling $2,000.00 in cash to the Landlord
on March 12, 2018 representing first and last month’s rent. Bank statements produced at the hearing
show that on March 12, 2018, there were three withdrawals in the amount of
$500.00, one withdrawal in the amount
of $450.00 and one withdrawal in the amount
of
$50.00. S.N. states that
their bank had a transaction limit of $500.00 so he had to do separate withdrawals in order to pay the $2,000.00 representing first and last month’s rent.
 
4.    
S.N. states that the
Landlord told him in August, 2019 that he had to leave the rental unit as they
wanted to do renovations and gave the Tenants two months notice. No formal N12 notice was provided by the
Landlord nor was there sufficient evidence led at the hearing to conclude that
sufficient details were provided that could be considered a formal notice
under the Act. However, the Tenants
believed they had to vacate the rental unit in October, 2019.
 
5.    
On October
15, 2019, S.N. told the Landlord he and his family
were vacating the rental unit at the
end of the month as per their notice they had received from the Landlord.
 
6.    
When S.N. was preparing to move out of the rental unit on October
30, 2019, text communications between S.N. and the
Landlord state the following:
 
Tenant: “Hi S. We are moving
tomorrow. Please refund
us the advance I paid.”
 
Landlord: Hi S. When you hand over your keys, gets your money
back. Thanks”.
 
7.    
The Landlord
acknowledged that he sent this text communication as stated above
but
then realized afterwards that the Tenants
did not provide
last month’s rent deposit to him
when the tenancy began so he changed
his mind and stated that the text communication
was sent in error.
 
8.    
S.N. testified that rent for the month of October,
2019 was paid by the Tenants on
October 5, 2019 and that the last months’ rent deposit was not applied
or returned to the
Tenants upon vacating the rental unit.
 
9.    
The Tenants delivered
their keys to the rental unit to the Landlord on October 31, 2019. It was at
this point that the Landlord told S.N. that no monies would be returned to him
because he had not provided the Landlord with a last month’s rent deposit. The Tenants
vacated the rental unit on October 31, 2019.
 
10.  The Landlord acknowledged that he told the Tenants
he wanted to do renovations in the rental unit
but denied forcing the Tenants to leave the rental unit.
 
11.  The Landlord agreed that the Tenants paid $1,000.00
per month in cash as rent but stated that the Tenants only paid one month’s rent and
did not pay a last month’s rent




 
deposit. The Landlord stated that he told the Tenants that because they did not pay last month’s rent deposit, none would be
returned.
 
 
T2 and T6 Application:
 
12.  The Tenants claim that the Landlord substantially interfered with their reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit
and are seeking only the following relief in their T2 application:
 
•        
Rent differential in the amount
of $6,400.00 representing an additional $450.00 per month the Tenants must pay to
their new landlord over a twelve month period.
 
13.  The Tenants’ T6 application is essentially with respect to the same
allegations as set out in the T2 application but seeks compensation
for the suffering the Tenants have gone through. The incidents as set out in the two applications pertain to cockroaches, a leak in the bathroom
ceiling and kitchen flooding. At the hearing, the Tenants referred to issues pertaining to laundry facilities
but it was not detailed in the applications nor were their applications amended
to include these allegations, therefore it will not be considered by the Board.
 
Cockroaches:
 
14.  The Tenants resided in a basement unit
which had a kitchen, bathroom and separate entrance but shared laundry
facilities with the Landlord. S.N. testified that he observed cockroaches in the unit just two
months after moving into the rental unit.
 
15.  S.N. stated that he immediately advised the
Landlord of the cockroaches to which the Landlord said it was normal but they
could use a spray pesticide to eradicate the cockroaches. The Tenants stated
that they could
not use a spray pesticide as a treatment option due to having
young children and asked
for cockroach gel treatment. The Tenants
purchased the gel treatment
which was applied the cockroach gel in the room where their young child would not have
access to but it was ineffective and the cockroaches remained.
 
16.  S.N. testified that because the Landlord felt cockroaches were normal and that one just had to get used to them, there
was nothing further done to get rid of the cockroaches.
 
17.  The Landlord testified that they were very surprised to learn that there were cockroaches
in the rental unit. Upon inspection,
the Landlord observed remnants of cockroach feces in the cabinets. The Landlord stated
that there were no cockroaches prior to the Tenants moving into the rental unit
and felt that it was the Tenants who brought the cockroaches into the home.
 
18.  When told about cockroaches in the rental
unit, the Landlord testified that they bought spray cans in June, 2018 and that
the cockroaches were under control for a period of time however, they also contacted a pesticide company
who indicated three weeks would




 
be required for
a proper treatment regime and that the rental unit would need to be vacate for four to five hours after each treatment. As
the Tenants had small children and the chemicals were strong, the Tenants refused the professional chemical treatment that the Landlord offered and instead
opted to use spray cans.
 
19.  The Landlord stated that as there was no
effective cockroach treatment, the cockroach infestation increased. The
Landlord also stated that they were frustrated as the Tenants had food scraps and their garbage
bins were inside the rental unit which would have increased the numbers of
cockroaches.
 
Flooding in Kitchen:
 
20.  S.N. testified that there was frequent
flooding in the kitchen of the rental unit however, he was unable
to recall specifics
including when these
flooding incidents occurred, how often they
occurred and how it impacted them other than it made the rental unit damp and moist.         S.N. stated that whenever it
rained, rain would enter the rental unit. No
details were provided as to where the rental unit had water enter it. The
Tenants testified that they do not know when they would have told the Landlord
but stated that the Landlord never repaired or checked the defect which made
the rental unit damp and moist.
 
21.  The Landlord did not provide
any comments at the hearing regarding any flooding in the
kitchen or that it was damp and moist.
 
Bathroom ceiling leak:
 
22.  S.N. testified that he told the Landlord
there was water
leaking from the bathroom ceiling in April of 2019. The Tenant stated that there was water
dripping down from the ceiling and that it gradually increased over time so
that the ceiling completely broke, leaving
a damaged and collapsed ceiling of approximately 15 to 20cm in length. S.N.
stated that when he told the Landlord about the leak from the ceiling, they
were told to put a bucket down to catch the water and did nothing further until
it was finally repaired in June of 2019.
 
23.  The Tenants stated
that the bathroom ceiling leak was not repaired for two months.
 
24.  The Landlord stated that he contacted a
plumber to fix the bathroom ceiling. That
plumber failed to attend the rental unit so another plumber was contacted by
the Landlord. The Landlord
states that it took 2 weeks to fix the bathroom ceiling because their first plumber failed
to attend.




 
The Law/Analysis:
 
T1 Application:
 
25. 
Pursuant to section 106 of the Act,
 
A landlord
may require a tenant to pay a rent deposit
with respect to a tenancy
if the landlord does so on or
before entering into the tenancy agreement.
…
 
A landlord shall apply aren’t
deposit that a tenant has paid to the landlord
or to a former landlord in
payment of the rent for the last rent
period before the tenancy terminates.
 
26.  Based on the evidence and submissions and on
a balance of probabilities, I am
satisfied that the Tenants did provide a last month’s rent deposit to the
Landlord at the commencement of the tenancy and upon vacating the unit, it was not applied for the last month’s rent nor returned to the
Tenants. I say this because at the
hearing, S.N. provided statements from his bank that showed on the date he and his family moved into
the rental unit, the total sum of
$2,000.00 was withdrawn from his bank account and that
this sum totalled first and last month’s rent deposit.
 
27.  Further, the Landlord acknowledged that the
monies would be returned to the Tenant in text
communications just prior to the Tenant vacating
the rental unit but
then stated at the
hearing that the comment was made in error.
 
28.  The Landlord shall pay to the Tenants
$1,000.00 representing the last month’s
rent that was not applied or
returned to the Tenants.
 
T2 Application:
 
29. 
Section 22 of the Act states:
 
A landlord
shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit and before
the day on which an order evicting the tenant is executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all
usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.
 
30.  The T2 application does not particularize
what the Tenants’ are claiming other than setting out what would properly be related to section 20 of the Act. In my view, it is more
appropriate for the Tenants to rely on section 20 of the Act, in these
circumstances, rather than section 22. However,
even if I was prepared to make a finding that the Landlord breached s. 22 of
the Act, there would be no point in doing so as the Tenants would not be
entitled to double recovery; no additional remedy would flow.
 
31.  Further, the Tenants’ only remedy for their allegation of substantial interference is
that they were seeking a rent differential and I
am not satisfied, based on the evidence
and




 
submissions at
the hearing and on a balance of probabilities, that the Tenants were forced to
secure new accommodations due to substantial interference by the Landlord,
particularly due to the allegations of the Landlord’s lack of dealing with
cockroaches, a bathroom ceiling that leaked but was repaired and flooding in
the kitchen which was not substantiated at the hearing. I say this because the Tenants did nothing more than a gel treatment to
deal with the cockroaches and refused other possible treatments, the bathroom
ceiling was repaired in a reasonably timely manner and there was insufficient particulars
for the Board to consider the
allegations of flooding in the kitchen. There was very little, if any, evidence
on how these issues substantially interfered with the Tenants. As a
result, that application shall be dismissed.
 
T6 Application:
 
32. 
Subsection 20(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the “Act’) says:
 
A landlord is
responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rent units in it, in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with
health, safety, housing and maintenance standards.
 
33.  Here, there is no dispute that the Landlord
responded to the Tenants’ claims about cockroaches promptly. Rather, the issue is that the treatment
option selected by the Tenants did not eradicate the infestation and was
probably not as effective as a commercially available treatment
as the infestation continued. The Landlord investigated treatment options and put to
the Tenants the available options including having a professional chemical
treatment performed by a pest control technician but the Tenants refused and
preferred to use alternative methods.
 
34.  Section
16 of the Act says:
 
When a landlord
or a tenant becomes liable to pay any amount as a result of a breach
of a tenancy agreement, the person entitled
to claim the amount has a duty
to take reasonable steps to minimize the person’s losses.
 
35.  This concept is frequently referred to as
the duty to mitigate. Put simply, in disrepair situations tenants have a
positive obligation to report the disrepair and to co-operate reasonably with
the landlord’s attempts to remedy it. Where a tenant interferes with or hampers
a Landlord trying to do repairs that behaviour can disentitle the tenant to a
remedy or otherwise reduce the remedy awarded. In this case, the Tenants chose
to utilize a gel rather than have a professional fumigation and it was not
effective. They refused to attempt
other remedies and/or
solutions (ie: removing
garbage from inside the
rental unit) to eradicate the cockroach infestation once it was determined that
the cockroach infestation continued.
 
36.  There was no dispute between
the parties with respect to there being a bathroom
ceiling leak however, it was not agreed as to how long the repair took to complete. I accept the Landlord’s evidence that once they
became aware of the issue, they took steps to remedy the leak and repair the
ceiling in a reasonable period of time.




 
 
 
37.  It would be a reasonable expectation that at some point in a tenancy, some disrepair will probably occur and because it would
be expected, no remedy would usually flow where the landlord successfully
resolved the problem promptly.
 
38.  The only remedy the Tenants’ T6 application
seeks is an unspecified amount for compensation. As for the request for compensation, the application did not
contain a figure claimed and stated “for the suffering” the Tenants have gone
through. At the hearing, the Tenants
stated that as new immigrants to Canada, the
suffering they experienced at the Landlord’s hands was inappropriate and that they felt taken advantage
of. Given the lack of an amount and
absent an explanation in the T6 application with respect to the compensation
sought, the request shall be denied.
 
39.  Therefore
I find that the Tenants’
T2 and T6 applications are dismissed.
 
40.  This order contains
all of the reasons in this matter and no further reasons
will be issued.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Tenants’
T2 and T6 applications are dismissed.
 
2.    
With respect to the
Tenants’ T1 application, the Landlord shall pay to the Tenants the sum of $1,000.00. This amount represents $1,000.00 for the last month's
rent deposit that was not
applied or returned to the Tenants.
 
3.    
If the Landlord does not pay the Tenants
the full amount
owing by February 10, 2022, the Landlord will owe interest. This will
be simple interest calculated from February 11, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
outstanding balance.
 
4.    
The Tenants have the right, at any time, to collect the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
 
 
January 10, 2022 Date Issued
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

