Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-22
File number:	
CET-96182-20

Citation:	Perdomo v Ahmad, 2022 CanLII 100316 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jspq8>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CET-96182-20
CET-96183-20
 



In the matter of:


BASEMENT, 14 VENTURA AVENUE BRAMPTON ON L6Y4X8


 




Between:


Ana Maria
Perdomo


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Waqar Ahmad


Landlord



 
 
 
Ana Maria Perdomo (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Waqar Ahmad (the 'Landlord') harassed,
obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with them, entered
the rental unit illegally and substantially
interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential
complex by the Tenant or by a member of the Tenant’s household (CET-96182-20- T2),
 
AND
 
Ana Maria Perdomo (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Waqar Ahmad (the 'Landlord') failed
to meet the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') or failed
to comply with health, safety, housing or maintenance standards(CET-96183-20-T6).
This application was heard via videoconference on December 2, 2021 at 9:24 A.M. The Tenant, Ms. Ana Maria Perdomo,
and the Landlord attended the hearing.
The Tenant declined the opportunity to speak with Tenant Duty
Counsel.
 
Determinations:
 
1.   
The Tenant advised that Matias and Samuel were her two young
sons. As they are minors
and not Tenants, the application has been amended to remove to remove them as
parties
 
2.   
The Tenant moved into the basement
rental unit on December 10, 2017 and is
still in possession. The
monthly rent is $1350.00.
 
3.   
The Tenant acknowledged there
was some overlap between her two applications and remedies requested applied to both
applications.




 
T6 Application
 
Tenant evidence
and submissions
 
4.   
The T6 application raises
the following maintenance issues:
 
a)    
Grout missing in the bathroom
following the Landlord’s attempted repair in stand-up shower. Photo evidence
was submitted, which appeared to show that new grout or caulking was applied,
but not to the satisfaction of the Tenant.
 
b)    
An ongoing hazardous walkway
outside the rental unit, along the side of the home leading to the basement entrance
door, where river
rocks are not flush
with paved walkway area. Photo evidence was submitted.
 
c)     
Outdoor rodent concerns beginning in January 2019,
and ongoing, because
of poor maintenance of garbage bins. No evidence regarding this was
provided.
 
d)     Leaks
and mould in the rental unit following a flood in August 2020. Photos of an interior short
wall under a stairwell were submitted.
 
e)    
Improper snow clearing and salting. Some photos were submitted which appeared to show walkways were
cleared.
 
f)       
Electric breaker switch shut-off
problems. There was no further
evidence submitted, other than the Tenant’s testimony it was resolved.
 
Landlord’s evidence and submissions
 
5.   
The Landlord disagrees that the
concrete portion of the walkway is hazardous and contends there is ample width of 4 feet along the path, allowing
the Tenant access
to her entrance door.
 
6.   
The Landlords claims that dating
back to March 2018, and again in January 2019, he has laid down outdoor traps
and bait, to eradicate the rodent problem, but that the Tenant did not seem to be aware of his actions.
He asserted that he properly
maintains and cleans the shared garbage bins and rodent problem
no longer exists because of his actions.
 
7.   
The Landlord testified he hired a
contractor to do tile repair work related to mould caused by leaks in the
stand-up shower in August 2020. The Landlord asserted the reason water was flooding
outside the stand-up
shower was because
the Tenant was attempting to use the shower as
a soaker tub, and the Tenant was not maintaining the washroom properly.
 
8.    The
Landlord asserted the snow clearing
and salting is the Tenant’s
responsibility in the lease agreement
 
9.   
The Landlord testified the electric breaker
panel issue was resolved shortly
after being notified of the
problem.




 
Analysis
 
10. The relevant sections
of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
“Act”) state:
 
 
20  
(1) A landlord is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in it,
in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with health,
safety, housing and maintenance standards.
 
(2) Subsection (1) applies even if the tenant was aware of a state of non-repair or a contravention of
a standard before entering into the tenancy agreement
 
11. In Onyskiw v. CJM Property
Management, 2016 ONCA 477 (CanLII), the Court of Appeal
determined that a contextual approach should be adopted when considering a
landlord’s potential breach of subsection 20(1) of the Act and a breach will
not be found if the landlord’s response to a maintenance issue was reasonable
in the circumstances.
 
12.
I
am satisfied based on the evidence that the Landlord
has properly addressed all maintenance obligations.
 
13. I find the mould issue in the rental unit was
reasonably addressed by the Landlord,
and the grout repair work was
satisfactory in circumstance.
 
14. I find the Tenant is responsible for snow
clearing and salting,
as this is referenced in the lease
agreement referenced.
 
15. The matter of the breaker
switch is resolved.
 
16. Regarding the concern
about outdoor rodent
infestation, I find the Landlord acted appropriately in response to this
Tenant concern.
 
17. The stones that are evident
in submissions appear
to be decorative in nature,
and I find them to be well maintained along the pathway.
 
18.
Therefore, I find that the
Landlord did not fail to meet the Landlord's obligations under subsection 20(1) of the Act to repair
or maintain the rental
unit and did not fail to comply
with health, safety, housing, or maintenance standards and the T6 application
shall be dismissed.
 
T2-Application
 
Tenant evidence
and submissions
 
19.
This application alleges illegal
entry, substantial interference with reasonable enjoyment and harassment. The Tenant
testified about the following incidents:




a)    
The Landlord’s wife illegally
entered the rental unit with the Landlord on September 12, 2020 following a proper
Notice of Entry. The Tenant did not wish to permit the Landlord’s spouse in the rental unit with
the Landlord, and when she did enter,
she allegedly took a video
during the visit,
which was supposed
to be an inspection related to a mould complaint.
 
b)    
Storage access to the garage was
restricted by the Landlord for the Tenant’s children’s bicycles, a barbeque,
chairs, and a table in September 2020. The Tenant claimed there was a verbal
agreement in place
allowing her the storage
use in the garage since 2017.
 
c)     
Noise from children upstairs, and
persistent yelling from February 20, 2018, onward. There were 31 occasions where
the Tenant complained to the Landlord by text and phone calls. The
Tenant testified the Landlord would normally address the problem eventually.
 
d)    
Improper snow clearing and salting (T6
overlap)
 
e)    
Leaks and mould in the rental
unit following a flood in August 2020 (T6 overlap)
 
Landlord’s evidence and submissions
 
20. The Landlord testified
that his wife entered the rental unit on the date in question to provide
him with some assistance as he applied a chemical cleaner, which was safe to
use and helped treat the mould problem along the wall adjacent to the washroom.
He also claimed he has a visual impairment and needed his wife to assist with
video and lighting.
 
21. The Landlord claimed
there was never a
verbal agreement for the storage
of tires, and other items
such as tires or car parts, but only for the Tenant’s children’s bicycles.
 
22. The Landlord testified he also has young children, and
he has done his best to keep the from any disruptions to the Tenant below. He
also testified that he has help from family members with the children
as babysitters, and they may speak more loudly to the children.
 
Analysis
 
6. The relevant sections
of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the “Act”)
state:
 
21   (1) A landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s
occupancy of a rental unit and
before the day on which
an order evicting the tenant is executed, withhold
the reasonable supply of any
vital service, care service
or food that it is the landlord’s obligation to supply under
the tenancy agreement or deliberately interfere with the reasonable
supply of any vital service, care service or food.
 
22  
A landlord shall not at any
time during a tenant’s occupancy
of a rental unit and before the day on which an order evicting the tenant
is executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit or the residential complex




in which it is located for all usual
purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.
 
23  
A
landlord shall not harass, obstruct,
coerce, threaten, or interfere with a tenant.
 
23. Based on the evidence and testimony submitted by both
parties, and on the balance of probabilities,
I find that the Landlord
harassed or interfered with the Tenant’s
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit.
 
24. Specifically, the wife of the Landlord entering
the rental unit without permission from the Tenant and taking video in the rental
unit represents substantial interference with the reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant. While I understand the
Landlord’s need for assistance with the mould service issue, it was not
properly communicated that his wife would also be present with him to provide
this assistance, and that a video recording device would be used.
 
25. Additionally, I find the actions taken by the Landlord
to limit the Tenant’s access to storage for her children’s bicycles, was not
warranted, and constitutes a needless degree of harassment. I accept the
Tenant’s testimony of a verbal understanding for bicycle storage in the garage.
However, I don’t disagree with the Landlord about other items, such as
automotive parts, a barbeque, chairs,
and a table, which should
not form part of the storage
requirements of the Tenant, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
 
26. Finally, while I accept the Tenant’s evidence
that there was noise emanating from the upper level, related to young Landlord’s
children, it is to be expected that with a young family living in the upper unit, there will be some noise from time to
time. The Tenant also testified that, in most instances, the noise issue was
addressed when brought to the Landlord’s attention.
 
Remedies requested by the Tenant:
 
5.     
T6 and T2 Remedies
combined into one request as
follows:
 
a)      
Abatement of rent in the amount
of $7800.00
 
b)      
Mould remediation
 
c)       
Noise reduction after 10pm
 
d)      
Storage costs reimbursement
 
e)      
Only the Landlord may enter the rental unit, and/or tradesperson(s)
 
f)         
Concrete and stone to be leveled
along the side door pathway
 
g)      
$53.00 for the filing
of the application to the Board.




27.
I
find the Landlord
shall pay to the Tenant
a rent abatement of $500.00 for the revocation of storage for the children’s bicycles, and $500.00 for the
Landlord’s spouse’s unexpected activity in the rental unit. These two incidents
constitute substantial interference with reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit by the Tenant, and harassment.
 
28. The Landlord shall also pay the
Tenant the amount of $53.00 which is
the amount paid for the filing
of this application.
 
29. I also find that in the future,
only the named
Landlord along with any
tradesperson(s) should access the
rental unit for any maintenance and/or repairs.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant a rent abatement of $1000.00.
 
2.    
The Landlord shall also pay
to the Tenant the amount
of $53.00 representing the filing fee cost for the application.
 
3.    
The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant
the total amount of $1053.00, owing
by March 5, 2022.
 
4.    
If the Landlord does not pay the
Tenant the full amount owing by March 5, 2022 the Landlord will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from March 6, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the outstanding
balance.
 
5.    
If the Landlord does not pay the
Tenant the full amount owing by March 5, 2022, the Tenants may recover this amount by deducting $526.50
from the rent for
the months of April 2022 and May 2022 respectively.
 
6.    
The Tenant have the right, at any time,
to collect the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
7.    
Only the named Landlord
and any necessary tradesperson(s) shall access the rental unit for any maintenance and/or repairs in
the future.
 
8.    
The T6 application is
dismissed.
 
 
 
February 22, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Steven Mastoras
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy,
5th Floor Mississauga ON
L4Z2G5




 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

