Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-22
File number:	
CET-94100-20

Citation:	Shaw v Trichilo, 2022 CanLII 100320 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jspq6>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CET-94100-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


4166 WILCOX ROAD MISSISSAUGA ON L4Z1C1


 




Between:


Krystal Shaw


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Gabriella Trichilo


Landlord



 
 
 
Krystal Shaw (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Gabriella Trichilo (the 'Landlord')
altered the locking system on a door giving entry to the rental unit or
residential complex without giving the Tenant replacement keys.
 
This application was heard in videoconference room 117
on October 28, 2021. The Tenant
and the Landlord attended the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.     At the beginning of the hearing the Landlord raised a preliminary issue with respect to the Board’s jurisdiction. The Landlord contends that
the Residential Tenancies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) does not apply to the tenancy agreement between the parties as the
Landlord lived in the rental unit and shared a washroom and a kitchen with the
Tenant.
 
2.     Subsection 5(i)
of the Act stipulates that
the Act does not apply to
living accommodation where the occupant
or occupants are required to share
a bathroom or kitchen facility with the
owner, the owner’s spouse, child or parent, and where the owner, spouse, child
or parent lives in the building in which the accommodation is located (emphasis
added). Both prongs of the test must be satisfied for the tenancy to be exempt.
 
3.    
There is no dispute that the Landlord owns the residential complex which is a single- family home and lives on site.
 
4.    
The tenant
was paying rent for a bedroom on the upper floor of a single
detached home with two other
students and the Landlord was also living in the home.




File Number: CET-94100-20
 
5.    
The Tenant also stated that the
Landlord occupies the basement of the home, had her own bathroom and separate
entrance. She testified that although she has never seen the actual basement unit, she could hear
the Landlord take showers from upstairs. She did not know if the Landlord had
her own kitchen space in the basement.
 
6.     Oral testimony and evidence submitted by the Landlord
provided details to show that the tenant and the other occupants of the home
were required to share the kitchen and main living space with the owner of the
home. The Landlord testified that she and her husband live onsite.
They rent rooms out to students and that
they have her room in the basement. The Landlord provided her driver’s licence as proof that her home address is the same as the rental property. The Landlord disputed that they share
the kitchen of the home with the other occupants in the home but did have a bathroom in the basement. The Landlord
also submitted into evidence a supporting letter from the other occupants of
the home, who confirm that the Landlord shares living space and the kitchen
with the other occupants. As well, the Landlord submitted the advertisement as
evidence where it does state the home is landlord occupied and describes the
rental for a bedroom with bathroom
and kitchen shared. The Landlord submitted into evidence letters from two other
occupants, who corroborated the Landlord’s claim that the owner/landlord share
the kitchen with the other occupants. After reviewing all the evidence
and testimony before me. I am satisfied that the Landlord has provided
sufficient information to determine that this claim should be exempt from the
RTA.
 
7.     It is therefore my decision that on the balance of probability the owner shared
a kitchen with the other
occupants of the home at all material times
and the exemption set out in section 5(i) applied. As such, the rental
unit is exempt from the Act based on the plain reading of the exemptions.
 
It is ordered
that:

1.   
The application is dismissed.
 
February 22, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Nicole Huneault
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert
Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor
Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

