Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-28
File number:	
CET-95582-20

Citation:	Platsko v Mendel, 2022 CanLII 127297 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jv05j>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
57
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CET-95582-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


310 NEILLY RD GILFORD ON L0L1R0


 




Between:


Allan Platsko Heather Platsko


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Mariya Mendel


Landlord



 
 
 
Allan Platsko
and Heather Platsko
(the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that Mariya
Mendel (the 'Landlord'), gave a notice of termination in bad faith.
 
This application was heard by video
conference on December 9, 2021.
 
At 2:01 pm, the Tenants, the Landlord
and the Landlord’s Representative Laman
Meshadiyeva attended the hearing. The Tenants witnesses Paulo Simoes and
Rima Sterrett were also in attendance.
 
Preliminary Issue:
 
The Landlord’s Representative raised
the issue of the date the Tenant’s
filed the application and claimed that it was beyond the 12 month filing limitations
as prescribed by the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, (the ‘Act’). I confirmed for the parties that the
limitation periods were suspended from
March 16, 2020 to September 14, 2020
and that the Tenant’s submitted a
valid application.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    The rental unit is a single-family home and the Tenants occupy
the entire home.
 
2.    The Tenancy began on or about April
2017.
 
3.    The Tenants moved out on or about March 2019.
 
4.    The Tenants filed a
T5 application on August 18, 2020.
 
5.    This application is brought pursuant
to s. 57(1)(a) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the 'Act') which states:




 
57 (1) The Board may make an order described in subsection (3) if, on application by a former tenant of a rental unit, the
Board determines that,
 
(a) the
landlord gave a notice of termination under section 48 in bad faith, the former tenant vacated the rental unit as a result of the notice or as a result of an application to or order made by the Board based
on the notice, and no person referred
to in clause 48
(1) (a), (b), (c) or (d) occupied the rental unit within a reasonable time after the former
tenant vacated the rental unit;
 
6.   
What this provision means is
that in order to succeed
on this application the Tenants
must establish:
•        
The Landlord gave a notice of termination under
s.48 of the Act in bad faith
 
•        
The Tenants vacated the rental unit as a result of the notice of termination; and
 
•        
No person referred to in clause 48(1) of the Act occupied
the rental unit within a reasonable amount of time after the
Tenant vacated the rental unit.
 
7.   
There is no
dispute that the Landlords served the Tenants with a notice of termination
under s.48 of the Act nor that the Tenants
moved out because
they received this notice.
 
The central
factual dispute is that the Landlord
served the notice
of termination in bad faith. Presumption of Bad Faith
8.   
Subsection 57(5) of the Act provides
that it is presumed, unless
the contrary is proven on a
balance of probabilities, that a landlord served a notice of termination under
s.48 in bad faith if, within 12 months of the tenant vacating the unit, the landlord lists it for rent
(among other activities).
 
9.    The Tenants submitted that, pursuant to the Landlord’s
N12 Notice they moved out of the unit
on May 30, 2019. It was the testimony and evidence of the Tenants that on or
about June 15, 2019, the unit was listed on kijiji. On or about June 19, 2019,
the unit was advertised on Airbnb. The Landlord does not dispute
that the unit was listed
for rent within 12 months of the Tenants vacating.
The presumption of bad faith under subs. 57(5) applies.
 
10. The is no dispute that the Landlord
served two N12 notices of termination (N12 notice) on the Tenants. It was the testimony and evidence of the Tenants
that on or about March 31,
2019, the Landlord served the first N12 notice with 60 days notice and a
handwritten note by the Landlord
that the house “will be posted for sale on April 5/2019” (submitted as
evidence). The Landlord selected Reason #2 on the notice that she had signed an
agreement of purchase and sale. The Landlord advised the Tenants that a
purchaser would be viewing the home.
 
11. On or about April 1, 2019, the Landlord advised
the Tenants that she had sold the house
and provided the Tenants with another N12 notice, selected Reason #2 again and
indicated the purchaser would be moving into the rental unit.




 
12. The Tenants did not lead any evidence that the
purchaser did not intent to move into the rental unit nor did they issue a summons
to cross examine
the intentions of the purchaser nor question the signed
statement submitted as evidence.
 
13. The Landlord submitted the OREA Agreement of Purchase
and Sale which at page 5 confirms acceptance at 8 pm on April 1st,
2019. The Tenants submissions support
the timing of events as they indicated the second N12 notice was served on
April 1, 2019 stating, “Later that night Mariya texted Allan that the house was
sold and sent us an updated N12.” Based on this, I find that the Tenants were served with a valid N12 notice.
The N12 noted the Landlord had entered into an agreement
of purchase and sale and that
the purchaser intended to move into the rental unit.
 
14.
As for the witnesses, I found the testimony lacked any substantive detail to persuade
me in any direction and did
not consider it relevant to my assessment and final decision.
 
15. The Landlord does not dispute that the purchaser did
not take possession of the rental unit. Rather, the he Landlord claims that, at
the time she served the Tenants with the Notice of Termination, she did so in
good faith as she had an agreement of purchase and sale for the property. At
the time, the purchasers could not afford the deposit and no deposit was made. She testified that the sale fell through
as the buyers could not secure a mortgage.
 
16.
The Act provides that a landlord
must have a valid agreement
of purchases and sale prior to serving an N12 for “purchaser’s own-use”. Section
49(1) of the Act provides as follows:
 
A landlord of a residential complex
that contains no more than three residential units who has entered
into an agreement of purchase and sale of the residential complex may, on
behalf of the purchaser, give the tenant of a unit in the residential complex a
notice terminating the tenancy, if the purchaser in good faith requires
possession of the residential complex or the unit for the purpose of
residential occupation…
 
17. The words “has entered
into an agreement of purchase and sale” are not qualified in any
way. There is no requirement that the
agreement be firm, nor any provision that an agreement containing conditions or contingencies delays a landlord’s or purchaser’s right to proceed with a notice of termination for the purchaser’s own use. I do not believe that the Act can be seen as the source of a requirement that an unconditional agreement be a rigid pre-condition of a notice of
termination under subsection 49(1).
 
18. I find that, with the plain language of s.49(1), and a
valid agreement of purchase and sale, the Landlord served
the Tenants with the N12 notice.
As the N12 relates to the
agreement, the good faith of the resulting application must therefore be looked
at through the lens of the intention of the purchaser under the agreement and the knowledge the Landlord had at
the time it was served.
 
19. It was the testimony of the Landlord that when she
served the Tenants with the N12 notice, she had an agreement of purchase and
sale and that the purchaser intended to move
into the rental
unit. She then stated that the purchaser did not have access to funds for a deposit and that after
discussions with her legal representative, she opted to waive




 
the deposit.
The Landlord’s Representative indicated that although
it was an unusual situation, the parties agreed and
the deposit was waived.
 
20. The Landlord also testified that on or about June 4, 2019, a
mutual release was completed
as the purchaser could not secure the finances for a mortgage. It was the position of the Landlord that
she did not offer the Tenants the opportunity to stay as they had already moved
out of the rental unit on May 30, 2019.
 
21.
It was the testimony of the Landlord
that she herself
had experiences financial constraints and moved quickly to advertise the home for
short-term rental income.
 
22. The Landlord did not summons the purchaser to support
this claim and instead, relied on a document submitted as evidence by way
of a signed statement from the purchaser stating that he intended to
purchase the property but could not secure the financing. The letter was signed and dated May 9,
2021.
 
23. It is well-established law that the Board, as a tribunal
governed by the Statutory Powers Procedure Act (“SPPA”), may accept and consider
hearsay evidence at hearings. The traditional approach to accepting such
evidence is to assign it the weight that it merits.
 
24. Moreover, the courts
have said that hearsay evidence
is not to be treated
as presumptively less
reliable than direct evidence. In Rex
Diamond Mining v. Ontario Securities Commission, 2010 ONSC 3926 (CanLII), the
Court stated, at paragraph 4:
 
“hearsay evidence is not, in law, necessarily less reliable than direct evidence”
 
25.  Accordingly, the hearsay
evidence will be weighted appropriately.
 
26. It was the position of the Landlord that there had
been a material change in circumstance giving
rise to the collapse of the transaction and to mitigate her losses she was left with no alternative but to list the home for
rent as the income was needed.
 
27.
Based on the facts
presented and on a
balance of probabilities, I find that the Landlord successfully rebutted the
presumption under s.57(5) of the Act.
 
28. I further find that, based on the evidence before me, the Landlord served the N12 notice in good faith because she had an
agreement of purchase and sale at
the time of service and due to unforeseen circumstances, that transaction was
cancelled. I find there was a
reasonable explanation provided
for the failure
of the purchaser to occupy the unit after the Tenants vacated.
 
29.
Based on the above, I cannot find that the Landlord
gave the notice of termination in bad faith.
Accordingly, the Tenant’s application shall be dismissed.
 
30.
This order contains all the reasons
for the decision within it. No further
reasons shall be provided.




 
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Tenants application is
dismissed.
 
 
February 28, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Dana Wren
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

