Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-18
File number:	
CET-99187-21

Citation:	Bromwich v IMH Pool XVIII LP, 2022 CanLII 100325 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jspqc>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CET-99187-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


609, 1110 CAVEN STREET MISSISSAUGA ON L5G4N4


 




Between:


Lauren Bromwich


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


IMH Pool XVIII
LP


Landlord



 
 
Lauren Bromwich
(the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that IMH Pool XVIII LP (the 'Landlord') substantially interfered with her reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential
complex, and withheld or deliberately interfered with the reasonable supply of a
vital service, care service, or food that the Landlord is obligated to supply under the tenancy agreement.
 
This
application was heard by videoconference on February 3, 2022. The
Tenant and the Landlord’s representative, Matt Anderson, attended the
hearing.
 
Preliminary Issue:
 
1.     
The Landlord’s representative submitted that the Landlord
for the rental unit listed
in the Tenant’s application as Janet Chamberlain is not the Landlord, and that the correct name of the
Landlord is IMH Pool XVIII LP. The Landlord’s representative requested that the name of the Landlord in the Tenant’s
application be amended to IMH Pool XVIII LP.
 
2.     
The Tenant agreed to this amendment, and I
consented to amend the Tenant’s
T2 application listing the Landlord as IMH Pool XVIII LP.
 
Determinations:
 
3.     
On February 19, 2021, the Tenant filed a T2 application (T2) pursuant to s. 29(1) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act') seeking a
rent abatement, and compensation for out of pocket expenses
and damage to personal property as a result of the
Landlord’s substantial interference with her reasonable enjoyment of
the rental unit, and the
Landlord interfering with the reasonable supply of a vital service.
 
Background
 
4.     
The rental unit is
a sixth-floor one-bedroom apartment
within a multi-unit residential
complex. The Tenant moved into the rental unit on
January 15, 2018 and continues to reside in the unit paying a monthly
rent of $1236.87.




 
Tenant’s Allegations
 
5.     
The Tenant alleges that the Landlord:
 
(a)     substantially interfered with her reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit during repair work to the balcony of the unit from
June 11, 2020 to the last week of September 2020; and
(b)     interfered with the reasonable supply of the
vital service of fresh or air-conditioned air during the period
of the balcony repair from June 11,
2020 to the last week of September 2020.
 
6.     
I am satisfied that the allegation in paragraph 5(a) above can be
considered as it occurred less than
one year before the application was filed.
 
7.     
The Tenant’s allegation in paragraph 5(b) above was filed in her T2 application pursuant to s. 29(1)2 of the
Act.
 
8.     
Section 29(1)2 of the Act states:
 
(1) A tenant or former
tenant of a rental unit may apply to th
e Board for any of the following orders:
 
2.    An order determining that the
landlord, superintendent or agent
of the landlord has withheld the reasonable supply
of any vital service, care service or food that it is
the
landlord’s obligation to supply
under the tenancy agreement
or deliberately interfered with
the reasonable supply of any vital service, care service or food.
9.     
Section 2(1) of the Act states:
 
“vital service”
means hot or cold water, fuel, electricity, gas or, during the part of each year prescribed by the
regulations, heat (“service essential”)
 
10.   The provision of fresh
or air-conditioned air is not
a vital service pursuant to s. 2(1) of the Act, and therefore the Tenant is unable to apply to the Board for an order pursuant to
s. 29(1)2 of the Act. For this reason, the allegation in paragraph 5(b) above will not be
considered.
11.  
However, the issue
of fresh air will be considered within the Tenant’s allegation of the Landlord’s substantial interference with her reasonable enjoyment of the unit listed in paragraph 5(a).
 
Substantial Interference – Balcony Repairs
Tenant’s Evidence
12.  
The Tenant testified that from June 11, 2020 to the last week
of September 2020
structural repairs
were completed to the unit’s balcony as well as the installation of new




 
balcony
railings with glass. The Tenant
remarked that these repairs substantially interfered with her reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit for the following reasons.
(a)    
Balcony Contents Removal: The
Tenant testified that although the
Landlord provided several advance notices of
balcony repairs to the residential
complex, these notices were confusing regarding what balcony units were impacted and
when. The Tenant stated
that it was not until June 10, 2020 that she became aware of the necessity of repairs to her balcony when the
building Superintendent called her to remove
all the items from her balcony as soon
as possible. The Tenant stated that she had to take a day off from work
on June 11, 2020 to remove all the plants and items from her
balcony - resulting in a loss of pay.
 
(b)     Balcony Use: The
Tenant stated that she was unable to
use her balcony during the prime months of the summer because the balcony door could not be
opened at all from June 11, 2020 to June 22, 2020. She advised
that after tenants
complained to the Superintendent about
the lack of airflow in the
units, the doors were adjusted to permit tenants to open them 3 to 4 inches after June 22, 2020, but this still prevented her access
to the balcony.
 
(c)      Loss of Plants: The Tenant testified
that having her plants indoors
for the duration of the balcony repair work, and
their reduced direct sunlight, resulted in the loss
of all of her balcony plants.
(d)    
Airflow: The Tenant testified
that although the balcony
door could be opened
a few inches after June 22, 2020,
the temperature in the rental unit was still very warm throughout the summer. She explained that the
rental unit had been equipped with a window mounted air conditioning unit, but the Landlord in
early June 2020 requested the use of floor positioned air conditioners for municipal by- law
compliance. The Tenant noted that the floor model air conditioner vented
through her bedroom window restricting her use of this window. She advised that this restriction, combined with the balcony
door opening of only 4 inches, limited
airflow and cooling in the unit when
the air conditioner was not used. The
Tenant acknowledged that she still
has the window air conditioner in her unit as well as the floor positioned air
conditioner.
(e)     Noise: The
Tenant stated that construction
noise from the balcony repairs
occurred during normal work hours, but it was still disruptive to her enjoyment
of the unit.
 
(f)       Cement Dust: The
Tenant testified that on June 24, 2020 she left her balcony door open a few inches for some fresh air,
and upon returning to her unit cement
dust had covered everything in
the unit. She stated that she believes that her cat’s
bronchitis, diagnosed by her
veterinarian on August 7, 2020, was
caused by this cement dust.
 
13.   The Tenant submitted
three notices from the Landlord
of the balcony repairs dated
October 30, 2019, April 29, 2020 and June 1, 2020. The
Tenant also submitted several
photos of her plants on the balcony before and after their removal indoors, three veterinarian receipts for her cat, and a receipt for the purchase of new
plants.




 
Landlord’s Evidence
 
14.  
The Property
Manager (PM) for the residential complex, Dragon
Eskic, testified that the tenants were first advised
about balcony repairs
by a memo posted on October 22, 2019. The PM noted that the
scheduled timeframe for the repairs was March 2020 to September 2020, but COVID
related supply delays resulted in the work commencing late in mid-June 2020, and finishing in mid-December 2020. The PM stated that loose
concrete was
chipped from the balcony
slabs, new slabs were poured, and the
balcony railings were replaced because the old ones had rusted.
 
15.   The PM testified that prior to the balcony
repairs commencing, the
tenants were sent a notice
on June 1, 2020 to remove
their items from the balcony,
and advising them that the balcony repairs would start on June 8, 2020 and
proceed through to September 2020. The PM remarked that on June 9, 2020 another notice was sent
to the tenants to clarify
the sequence of the balcony repairs, and on June 10, 2020 a further notice was
sent to the tenants as a reminder to
remove items from their balconies.
 
16.  
The PM stated that several tenants in early June 2020 had complained about a lack of unit airflow as a
result of the locked balcony
doors. After consulting with the
contractor, the decision was made
to modify the doors to permit the tenants
to open them 3 to 4
inches after June 22, 2020. The PM testified further that balcony
repair progress updates were provided to the tenants on July 7, 9 and
24, 2020, as well as on August 5
and 19, 2020.
17.  
The Landlord’s representative submitted the four notices from October 22, 2019 to June 10, 2020 that were
provided by the Landlord to the tenants
in advance of the balcony
repairs, as well as the five repair updates from July 7, 2020 to
August 19, 2020 that the Landlord sent to
the tenants regarding the progress of
the balcony work.
18.  
The Landlord’s representative submitted that the balcony work, and its timeframe of completion,
was not unreasonable in the circumstances, and that the Landlord provided sufficient notice of the
repair work to the tenants, as
well as numerous work progress updates.
 
Analysis
 
19.   Section 22 of the Act states:
 
A landlord shall not
at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental
unit
and before the day on which an
order evicting the tenant is
executed substantially interfere
with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all usual purposes by a tenant or members of his
or her household.
20.  
The Tenant
alleges that the Landlord’s substantial interference to her reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit arises
from the balcony repairs that the
Landlord was performing in the
rental unit and the residential complex.
As such, in addition to s. 22 of the Act, s. 8(3) of Ontario
Regulation 516/06 applies and states
that when making a determination of
substantial interference:




 
(a)     the Board shall consider
the effect of the carrying out of the work on
the use of the rental unit or residential complex by the tenant or
former tenant, and by members of the household of the tenant or former tenant; and
 
(b)     the Board shall not determine that an interference was
substantial unless the carrying out of the work constituted an interference
that was unreasonable in the
circumstances with the use and
enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the tenant or former tenant, or by a member of the
household of the tenant
or former tenant.
 
Balcony Contents Removal
 
21.   On the basis of
the notice that the Tenant received from the Landlord on June 1, 2020, I find that the Tenant ought to have known that her balcony required
clearing as early as June 8, 2020. Any confusion
regarding the repair timeframe and clearing
of her balcony should have been communicated to, and resolved with, the Property Manager on or shortly after June 1, 2020. I accept
that the Tenant may not
have received the additional
balcony repair clearing notices
from the Landlord on June 9 and
10, 2020; however, after receiving the call
from the Property Manager on June 10, 2020
to clear her balcony, I am satisfied that removing the contents of the balcony could have been accomplished on the evening of June 10, 2020, and did not require a full day’s absence from work on June 11, 2020.
 
22.  
On the basis of the evidence provided, I am satisfied that the Tenant had sufficient notice and opportunity to clear the contents of her
balcony before June 11, 2020. I accept that the Tenant’s decision to clear the balcony
contents on June 11, 2020 resulted in a disruption of her work; however, that was the Tenant’s decision, and not the result of any interference from the Landlord. I therefore find that the Landlord did not breach their
responsibilities pursuant to s. 22 of the Act due to lack of advance notice of the
balcony work.
Balcony Use, Loss of Plants,
Airflow, Noise, Cement Dust
 
23.  
I accept that the balcony repairs for the Tenant’s unit over the period of June 11, 2020 to the last week of September 2020
restricted the Tenant’s use of her balcony, contributed to the loss of her
plants, limited the airflow in the unit, and created
noise. I also accept that on
June 24, 2020 repair work cement dust
entered the unit. The Tenant did not establish that her cat’s
bronchitis was attributable to the cement dust.
 
24.  
However, as set
out above, the Tenant must also
establish that the interference she experienced was unreasonable in
the circumstances with her
use and enjoyment
of the rental unit or
residential complex.
25.  
The relevant circumstances include the fact that under s. 20 of the Act, the
landlord is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential
complex, including the rental units in it, in a good state of
repair and fit for habitation and for complying with health, safety, housing and maintenance standards.




 
26.  
In conducting the balcony repair
work, I find that the Landlord was fulfilling their obligation to all the residents under s.
20 of the Act, and this required
the removal and replacement of the loose concrete on the balcony
slabs, as well as the removal and replacement of the rusted balcony railings.
Given the nature and scale of
the required work, noise, dust and disruption were unfortunately
inevitable.
27.  
I am satisfied
that the Landlord’s ongoing updates and coordination with the Tenant regarding the repair work, the mitigation measures to improve airflow and reduce noise, as well as the
timeline of completion –
especially given COVID construction
constraints – represented reasonable
measures implemented by the Landlord
to minimize the impact of the work on the Tenant. Noisy work was
restricted to weekdays from 9:00 am
to 5:00 pm, and the six months required
to complete the work, forecasted by the Landlord on October 22, 2019, was reasonable given the scale of the project. I am also satisfied that this work was
required to ensure that the Tenant would
have continued use and enjoyment of the unit’s balcony.
 
28.  
I therefore find that the interference to the Tenant caused
by the Landlord in meeting their maintenance obligations was not
unreasonable in the circumstances, and therefore not substantial
pursuant to O. Reg. 516/06 s. 8(3)(b), and that the Landlord did
not breach their responsibilities pursuant to
s. 22 of the Act.
 
Summary
 
29.   As noted in the preceding paragraphs, I find that the
Tenant has not established on the balance of probabilities that the
Landlord substantially interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. Accordingly, the Tenant’s application
must be denied.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     
The Tenant’s application is dismissed.
 
February 18, 2022                                                            
 Date Issued                                                                     Frank Ebner
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor
Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080
or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

