Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-17
File number:	
CET-93351-20

Citation:	Alyayi v Parkbridge Life Style Communities Inc, 2022 CanLII 61596 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jqg33>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CET-93351-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


406, 10 WINFIELD DRIVE VICTORIA HARBOUR
ON L0K2A0


 




Between:


Fatemeh Sharifi Alyayi Mohammadamin Gharavizad


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Parkbridge Life Style Communities Inc


Landlord



 
 
 
Fatemeh Sharifi Alyayi and Mohammadamin Gharavizad (the 'Tenants')
applied for an order determining that Parkbridge Life Style Communities Inc
(the 'Landlord') or the Landlord's superintendent/agent harassed, obstructed,
coerced, threatened or interfered with them, entered the rental unit illegally,
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their household and
withheld or deliberately interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital
service, care service, or food that the Landlord is obligated to supply under
the tenancy agreement.
 
This application was heard by videoconference
on October 28, 2021.
 
The Tenant
Fatemeh Sharifi Alyayi
and the Landlord’s Representative Susan Irving
and Landlord’s agent Pam Wright attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.   
The
Tenant’s application is a T2 Application filed March 1, 2020 and brought
pursuant to s.29(1) Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) which alleges
that the Landlord, or superintendent/agent of the Landlord entered the rental
unit illegally; substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant; harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with
the Tenant during the Tenant’s occupancy of the rental unit; and withheld or
deliberately interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital service that the
Landlord is obligated to supply under the tenancy agreement
 
2.   
The
Tenant seeks an order that the Landlord
stop certain activities, as well as the payment
for out-of-pocket expenses and an additional payment for various other
infractions.




 
3.   
The
Tenant was an employee for the Landlord, working as a seasonal resort manager. The Tenant’s employment was terminated on
November 11, 2019. At the time of the
hearing, the Tenant was no longer living at the premises.
 
4.   
The
Tenant’s T2 application outlines a number allegations as against the Landlord.
The first allegation alleges
the Landlord served an illegal N8 notice of eviction, on the same day
as the stipulated termination date in
the Form N8, being November 11, 2019. The Form N8
was served on the basis the unit was available to the Tenant as a condition of
her employment and the employment has ended.
The Landlord acknowledged that the notice given was void due to the lack
of notice. It is clear that this was an isolated
incident and a drafting error which would render the Form N8 defective. I do not find on a balance of
probabilities that the Landlord’s service of this defective notice rises to a level of severity to support any of the Tenant’s claims in
her T2 application.
 
5.   
The
second allegation alleges the Landlord harassed the Tenant by calling the
police “to make the eviction process without board/court order: on January 8,
2020” The Tenant produced a business
card that was left at the unit by the responding officer, asking her to call
him “regarding your eviction”. The
Tenant ultimately reached out to the police constable and produced his responding email which noted “the
Police are not looking to do anything other than to
mediate and prevent this incident from escalating”. While it may have been stressful for the Tenant to receive the
message from the police constable, I do not find on a balance of probabilities
that the Landlord’s decision to involve the police in the circumstances supports any of the Tenant’s claims in her T2
application.
 
6.   
The
third allegation alleges the Landlord harassed members of the Tenant’s family
by entering illegally to the unit and providing false information to the police
on January 8, 16, 2020. There is no
evidence that the Landlord or its agent entered the unit on the days noted, and
after reviewing the communications of the police constable, I do not find on a
balance of probabilities that the Landlord provided false information to the
police. This allegation is dismissed.
 
7.   
The
fourth allegation alleges that the Landlord held the Tenant’s mail and posted
“signs showing discrimination” outside the Landlord’s office. The Tenant states an important package was
sent to her on November 27, 2019 and that she made a request with the Landlord
as to its whereabouts on January 8, 2020. The
Landlord advised that they made a search for the package and ultimately located
the package and returned it to the Tenant on January 16, 2020. I do not find any bad faith intent on the
part of the Landlord for this delay. The
Tenant indicated it was an “important
medical package”, however, she failed to demonstrate any
resulting inconvenience or adverse impact resulting from the delay. I note the Tenant only made an inquiry
with the Landlord approximately 1.5 months after its delivery to the
residential complex, further suggesting any inconvenience from the delay was likely to be minimal.  The Tenant also produced a picture of the sign posted on the




 
Landlord’s office stating “Unit #406 is at the rear
of the building. Deliveries cannot at
this office for this unit”, presumably to avoid any similar occurrences
with the Tenant’s deliveries. I find
it was reasonable for the Landlord to request that packages be delivered
directly to the Tenant and not the Landlord’s office. I do not find on a balance of probabilities that the Tenant’s
delay in receiving her package supports any of the Tenant’s claims in her T2
application.
 
8.   
The
fifth allegations alleges the Landlord did not accept the rent cheque for the
months of January or February, 2020. I
do not find on a balance of probabilities that this particular allegation
discloses a cause of action that would support any of the Tenant’s claims in
her T2 application.
 
9.   
The
sixth allegation alleges the Landlord discontinued vital services November 15,
17, 2019, January 7, 2020 and February 27, 2020. At the hearing the Tenant noted that the furnace stopped working
for brief periods on the noted dates. While
a T6 application for maintenance is not before me, the Tenant asserts as part
of her T2 application that the Landlord “withheld” or “deliberately interfered” with the reasonable supply of a vital service. The text communications between
the parties show the Landlord trying to arrange for a maintenance contractor on
the day in question or the next morning. Any interruption to the proper
functioning of the furnace appears to have been brief, with the Landlord
attempting to rectify the issue. I do
not find on a balance of probabilities that the furnace interruption supports
any of the Tenant’s claims in her T2 application.
 
10.
The seventh
allegation alleges the Landlord
stopped providing snow removal services
from November 2019 onwards. The
Tenant produced pictures showing snow in the common areas and the pathway
leading to the Tenant’s unit, as well as a large truck parked on the driveway
area in front of the Tenant’s unit.  While
the Tenant noted this issue was from “November 19, 2020 to current” very few
particulars were provided regarding the frequency
of the snow and resulting impact on her. I
do not find on a balance of probabilities that any lack of snow removal
supports any of the Tenant’s claims in her T2 application.
 
11.
The
Tenant also indicated that a toilet in the unit was not working for several
weeks. The Tenant produced a service
order request from February 28,2020 whereby she notified the Landlord of the
issue and the response was “unit owner is responsible for interior of unit”. No
other communications between the parties were presented in respect of this
issue. While this is not a T6 application for
maintenance, I do find that the Landlord’s response to this basic
request, given the parties deteriorating relationship, to have substantially
interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. While the Tenant outlined the toilet did not work for several weeks, I do not hold the Landlord responsible for this
entire delay, since the Tenant could have taken certain steps to minimize any
such inconvenience.  Ultimately, the Tenant eventually arranged for the toilet to be fixed, and




 
produced an invoice from the plumber she paid in the
amount of $110.18, as well as certain expenses she incurred for a plunger/snake
and drainage to fix the toilet in the amounts of $52.13 and $7.06. I find the Tenant should be reimbursed
accordingly.
 
It
is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant the sum of $169.37
for reimbursement of certain out of pocket expenses.
 
2.     The Landlord shall also pay to the Tenant $45.00
for the cost of filing
the application.
 
3.     The total amount
the Landlord owes to the Tenant is $214.37.
 
4.     If the Landlord does not pay the Tenant the
full amount owing by January 28, 2022, the Landlord will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from January 29, 2022 at 2.00%
annually on the outstanding balance.
 












January 17, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Peter Nicholson
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

