Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-31
File number:	
CET-93576-20

Citation:	Sinnott v  Cruise, 2022 CanLII 37235 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jp434>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
30
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CET-93576-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


1382 MUSKOKA RD 169 GRAVENHURST ON P1P1R2


 




Between:


Breyan Sinnott


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Carolyn
Cruise David Cruise


Landlords



 
 
 
Breyan Sinnott (the 'Tenant') applied
for an order determining that Carolyn
Cruise and David Cruise (the 'Landlords') failed to
meet the Landlords' maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act')
or failed to comply with health, safety,
housing or maintenance
standards.
 
 
This application was heard at 1:03pm in videoconference room 117 on October 28, 2021.
The Tenant and David Cruise and Carolyn Cruise (the 'Landlords') attended the
hearing.
 
Determinations:
1.    
The rental unit is a
4-bedroom, 3 bath, single detached home with a crawlspace basement on a rural property. The tenant moved
into the unit on May 1, 2019 and moved out on November 30, 2019.
 
2.    
The tenant
filed an application about maintenance issues
(T6) on March 2, 2020.
 
3.    
The application alleges the following:
 
•        
Water / flooding in spare bedroom-ensuite
•        
Well / water
quality
•        
Mold
•        
Electrical / hydro
•        
Fire risk
 
Water / flooding and mold




 
4.    
The Tenant said that in
May 2019 the shower in the spare bedroom ensuite would leak when being used.
The Tenant stated that it looked to her that this shower had previous leaking
problems. When the tenant used the shower, it would drip water into the living
room and other areas of the home. The tenant stated that the water would enter into light fixtures and lights would flicker. The drop ceiling and plastic light
fixtures would fill with water. The tenant
notified the Landlord
at the beginning of June 2019. A contractor came by after 2 weeks. According to the
Tenant, the leak repair was done approximately one month after.
 
5.    
The Landlord
testified that the tenant’s unit had 3 bathrooms and she was told not to use that specific bathroom. The landlord
stated the Tenant advised them around May 28, 2019 and they sent over a repairman to seal the drain and sent over a repair on June
3, 2019. I accept that the tenant notified the Landlord on or around
March 28, 2019.
 
Mold
 
6.    
At the beginning of the
tenancy the tenant noticed mold in the house. There was dark green and black
mold growth and it was evident along the walls and ceiling joints and behind
the wallpaper. According to the Tenant, the mold was visible in the stairwell to
second level and master bedroom ensuite and in the floorboards. The tenant
provided photo evidence to support
her claim. The tenant stated that she notified the Landlord via text message on June 1, 2019 and sent pictures on
numerous occasions notified the Landlord. She said she persistently emailed and
sent requests to the Landlord to investigate.
After a month of constant
messages, the landlord sent over a family friend
to do a visual inspection and offered to have the areas painted over.
The tenant testified that the mold was still ongoing and continued to grown and
new spores were appearing everywhere. No painting or repairs were never done.
 
7.    
The Landlord
advised that they sent out a family
friend who was a contractor and that they washed
it down with Javex.
 
 
 
Electrical / hydro
 
8.    
The tenant
stated that due to the leaks, the electrical was unstable and dangerous. There were fluorescent bulbs in the
kitchen, directly under the flooding area. Water remained in the ceiling light.
The lights would flicker or didn’t work. The electricity would short out or
there would even been power surges.
 
9.    
The dryer had some issues. It began to smoke one day and the room filled with smoke.
The tenant explained that it was the wire connection and that the home had
exposed wires throughout the house.
 
10.  There were open junction boxes in the unit.
The exterior light of the house stopped working and the tenant notified the Landlord a minimum 6 times. The tenant felt this was unsafe as she worked
night shift and if was impossible to see at night. The tenant stated the landlord told her they would
send an electrician to come over but never did. The




 
tenant explained that the landlord
had canceled appointments and advised the tenant that he would look at it when he would be
in the area. The tenant would need to leave the house and unlock for the
Landlord to gain access. The tenant
was not prepared to do this for obvious safety reason. She said the
Landlord refused to do the work unless she agreed.
 
The Landlord
responded by saying that the hydro always flickered. Since the home is in rural
area, the hydro is unsteady. The landlord acknowledged that the lights to the exterior were out but stated not for very
long. The Landlord stated that the Tenant could have left the living room light
for lighting. The landlord completed the repairs two days after the tenant
moved out. The landlords further stated that the house was sold in January 2021 and there
were no issues
reported regarding the electrical. As for the dryer,
the Landlord stated that when she was notified about the dryer, the Tenant was
given a replacement dryer within a few days.
 
Water quality /
Well
 
11.  The tenant claimed that the there was
staining in the sink from the water. The water became darker in color in toilets
and dishwasher. The tenant stated
her clothes started turning red and her hair
began to change to an orange color. The
tenant contacted the Landlord but
nothing was done. The tenant stated the water pressure dropped significantly
and eventually turned to sporadic spurts.
 
12.  The tenant stated that the well went dry and she contacted the landlord
immediately. The Landlord advised
the tenant that she would have someone out to look at it but it would take a couple weeks. The tenant did not have water for her use and was forced to shower at work. The tenant stated that she
called a contractor on her own and the technician advised the tenant that the
well needed repair and needed filled. The tenant sent the report to the
Landlord along with her invoice. The tenant stated that the landlord did not do
the work nor was the well filled. The tenant was told to wait for the rain.
 
13.  The landlords disputed that the same day
the tenant called on August 20th,
2019, they called a company.
The company was not available. The tenant made a suggestion to call another
contracted. The Landlord stated that
the contractor filled and lowered the pump and paid the bill.
 
Fire risk
 
14.  The tenant stated
that the Landlord
did not follow
their legal obligation to have installed smoke alarms and Co2 detectors in the unit. The tenant told the landlord about the fire code. The tenant
purchased and installed the alarms and monitors herself for her own safety. The
tenant also stated that the heat shields were removed from the stove.
 
Remedies
 
15.   Under s. 30 of the
Act, if the Board determines in an application under paragraph 1 of subsection 29(1)
that a Landlord has breached
an obligation under
subsection 20(1) or




 
section 161, the Board may do one or more remedies
the Tenant is claiming. In this case the tenant is seeking the following:
 
a)    
The cost of replacing
and repairing her property that was damaged or destroyed ($1788.00)
specifically, her clothing, staining and mold, disposed at the dump,
replacement cost= ($330), toiletries and personal items mold, and disposed at
the dump = ($420), towels, staining and mold, disposed of at the dump ($60),
sporting equipment, damaged by mold and disposed at the dump=($280), hairdressing ($650 = 5 visits x $130), dry cleaning unforms
($48)
b)    
Out of pocket expenses
totally $420. Cost for water x 12 weeks 1 large bottle and 3 cases/week
c)     
An order
that the landlord
do repairs, replace
or other work necessary, full inspection
of home required to prove the home is safe.
 
 
16.  In this case, it was quite clear that the
rental unit lacked some repairs and had maintenance issues. Although the
Landlord dealt with some items in a reasonable manner certain items were not
dealt with in a timely manner or even at all. With regards to the mold and the
water supply, I find that the Landlord did breach their obligations under the Act. The Tenant notified the Landlord on several occasions about the mold and
the issue was never resolved and ongoing until the day the tenant moved out.
The water supply and discoloration should have been taken more seriously by the
Landlord and resolved earlier on. The Tenant suffered substantial loss of her ability to use the unit to its
full capacity, had damaged personal items and was not able to shower or clean
in her unit. I have accepted the tenant’s testimony to be credible. The tenant
did not supply
any evidence to support the loss of damaged items, no receipts. The
Landlords did not raise any objections at the hearing to this regard. I feel
the amount the Tenant claimed in the amount of $1778.00 to be reasonable.
 
17.  The tenant is no longer a tenant as she
moved out of the unit on November 30, 2019. At the hearing the Landlord stated
that the property was sold January 2021. Accordingly, I have no jurisdiction to order repairs
or other work necessary that the home required nor a
full inspection as requested by the tenant
 
18.  I will award the out of pocket expenses the tenant incurred
for the water she had to
purchase in the amount of $420.00
 
 
 
It is ordered that:
1.    
The Landlords shall pay to the Tenants
$1778.00 for the replacement cost of her damaged clothes.
 
2.    
The Landlords
shall pay to the Tenants
$420 for the purchase of
water.
 
3.    
The Landlords
shall pay to the Tenants
$50 for the cost of filing the application.
 
4.    
The Landlord
shall pay the Tenants the full amount
owing by February
13th, 2022.




 
5.    
If the Landlord does not pay the Tenant
the full amount
owing on or before
February 13th, 2022, the Tenant will
start to owe interest. This will be
simple interest calculated from February 14th, 2022 at 1.22% annually on
the balance outstanding.
 
January 31st, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Nicole Huneault
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

