Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-17
File number:	
CET-90756-19

Citation:	CET-90756-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 100308 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jspq4>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CET-90756-19
 
JN and NN (the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that JC (the 'Landlord') or the Landlord's
superintendent or the Landlord's agent substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants
or by a member of their
household and withheld
or deliberately interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital service, care service, or food
that the Landlord is obligated to supply under the tenancy agreement. (T2 application)
 
This T2 application was heard by videoconference on December 2, 2021.
 
Only the Tenants attended
the hearing. As of 1:35 pm, the Landlord was not present
or represented, and the hearing commenced at that time.
 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Issue
 
1.    
The Landlord sent a request for
rescheduling to the Board dated December 2, 2021 (the date of this hearing). He indicated in his request that due to
attending a funeral for a close person in his life, he would
not be available to participate in the hearing.
There was no evidence
submitted to support the request. The
Landlord stated that he had no one else to attend
the hearing on his behalf and that he “was prepared to meet and
put this to bed once and for
all”. The Landlord also stated
that he tried to contact the Board on December 1, 2021 about his request, and
that he spoke with the one of the Tenants on that same day. He was not able to secure the consent of
the Tenants for his request, he stated.
 
2.    
The Tenants objected to any rescheduling citing this application has been pending
for two years and the Landlord
has had ample time to prepare for this hearing, or to have someone represent
him.
 
3.     Having considered the Landlord’s request and the
Tenants’ submissions, I denied the Landlord’s
request for a rescheduling, which in effect would amount to an adjournment
hereto. The reasons are as follows.




 
4.    
The T2 application was filed on
November 21, 2019. The Board
scheduled a Case Management Hearing (CMH) which was held on December 19, 2019. The Tenants attended the CMH, but the Landlord
did not. The Hearing Officer
issued interim order CET-90756-19-IN on December
20, 2019, ordering the parties to disclose
any and all evidence by deadlines
set for January
2020. To date, the Landlord
has not submitted any evidence in defence of the T2 claims made against
him.
 
5.    
The Board scheduled a first merits
hearing which was held on May 27, 2021. The
Tenants attended that first hearing,
but the Landlord did not. In fact, the Landlord had submitted a request
to reschedule, stating he had a family
proceeding to attend
to and would not be able to
participate. The presiding Member
granted the request to reschedule but made the adjournment peremptory on the Landlord to participate in the
next hearing.
 
6.     The Board mailed the current
Notice of Hearing
to the parties on October
27, 2021, which gave both parties adequate time to
prepare for this T2 hearing. Nothing
was received by the Board from the Landlord except for this latest request to
reschedule.
 
7.    
The Board’s legal records contain
no indication of any communication logged by any Customer Service Officer
respecting an attempt to contact the Board by the Landlord. It is the Board’s
practice that all communications between
clients and the Board concerning relevant case files, be logged
into the legal records under some “record of transaction” entry.
 
8.    
In my view, the Landlord has not shown
he has been interested to “…meet and put this to
bed once and for all’. In fact, it is evident the Landlord
missed both the CMH and the
first hearing, and has not submitted any evidence. If the Landlord were truly interested in participating, he would
have submitted evidence or attempted other communications to indicate his stated interest
to participate, or at least engaged an authorized party to assist him for times when he himself
would be unable to participate.
 
9.    
Pursuant to section 183 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’), “[the] Board shall adopt the most expeditious
method of determining the questions arising in a proceeding that affords to all
persons directly affected by the proceeding an adequate opportunity to know the
issues and be heard on the matter.”
 
10.  In my view, the Landlord
has had more than ample opportunity to know the issues and to
be heard on the matter. He has had
two years, but the pattern he has shown so far is one of disinterest and delay.   I directed the Tenants, therefore, to commence
the merits hearing on an uncontested
basis.
 
T2 Application
 
11.  The T2 application was filed on November 21, 2019, claiming
the Landlord substantially interfered with the Tenants’
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit (section 22 of the Act), and withheld
or interfered with a vital service(s) (section 21 of the Act). If successful with the application, the
Tenants seek the following remedies: (a)
a rent abatement of $800.00; (b) order the Landlord to stop further
construction.




 
12.  The Tenants indicated that the rent abatement in the
application was supposed to read as $800.00 per month, but I stated this is not
what the T2 application requests as the Tenants had sufficient space to clarify
any of the requested remedies
in writing. They did
not. The Tenants requested a short
recess to discuss privately whether they wished to proceed or take some other
action (such as requesting an amendment or withdrawing their application). They came back to the hearing room and
confirmed they would proceed with the T2 application as filed, and wanted the
remedy to read as $800.00 per month.
13.  I stated that the way I could consider a remedy of
$800.00 per month would be to have the Tenants make a request
to amend their application (pursuant
to the Board’s Rule No. 15).
As no request to amend an application had been submitted in advance of
this hearing, my discretion could be exercised to grant a request to amend at
this hearing if I were satisfied the amendment were appropriate, and would not prejudice any party
while being consistent with a fair and expeditious proceeding. I indicated that in my view, it would be highly
prejudicial to the Landlord if I were to simply grant an amendment to increase
remedy requests now without an adjournment. The
Tenants confirmed they were not interested in any further delays.
14.  The Tenants adduced
the following pieces
of evidence to support their testimonies:
 
•    
Exhibit TT#1 :- copies
of the signed OREA lease and the signed Ontario
standard- form lease that were both signed by the Tenants;
 
•    
Exhibit TT#2 (2a, 2b, 2c, 2d, 2e)
:- copies of their prepared Word documents displaying “cut and pasted”
segments of chosen
communications with the Landlord
concerning the garage, the driveway, the use of the outside yard, the
electricity and the heating issues.
 
15.  The exhibits under TT#2 were submitted post-hearing – pursuant to my request – as the
submissions made by the Tenants
were not properly/incompletely received
by the Board for the hearing. The
Tenants were directed to ensure the Landlord was served with the post-hearing
submissions.
 
16.  The Tenants also provided other submissions, but these
were focused mainly on maintenance issues, which are not part of the claims
under sections 21 and 22 of the Act.
 
17.  The Tenants confirmed they moved in on July 1, 2019, have been paying $3,500.00 monthly rent, and are still in
possession of the rental unit.
 
18.  The Tenants confirmed that when they first moved into
the rental unit, they were fully aware of the Landlord’s construction efforts
to modify the basement of the rental unit building, which was to create a separate, rentable
apartment in the basement for other
future tenants.
 
19.  With regard to the Tenants’
claims under the T2 application, I make note of subsection 20(2) of the Act, which I
believe does provide a basis for the tenant-rights claims hereunder. Subsection 20(2) is in relation
to maintenance obligations specifically, and states:




 
“20(2) Subsection (1) [regarding a landlord’s maintenance obligations under the Act]
applies even if the tenant was aware of a state of non-repair or a
contravention of a standard before entering into the tenancy agreement.”
 
Utilities
 
20.  The Tenants testified
they have been paying 100% of the utilities for the rental
unit, when they claim the
signed lease shows a 70%-30% split (i.e 70% Tenants, 30% Landlord).
 
21.  The Tenants submitted that the Landlord
has been using the electricity to the building over the course of his construction efforts, but they
confirmed that to date, no
tenants have rented the basement area. In
effect, to date the Tenants have been the sole tenants of the rental unit
property.
 
22.  I reviewed the signed OREA lease (TT#1) and informed
the Tenants that the lease clearly
sets out the Tenants are responsible for 100% of the utilities. Also, Schedule A of the OREA lease shows
that “electricity” for the property falls to the Tenants to pay in full.
Finally, I note that the standard-form lease sets out the utilities as the
Tenants’ responsibility, although electricity specifically is not mentioned.
 
23.  As there is nothing to indicate otherwise, the Tenants’ claim for a breach of the utilities payments by the Landlord is not
successful, and is denied.
 
Garage, Driveway
and Back Yard
 
24.  The Tenants testified that during one of their initial
tours of the property before entering into their tenancy agreement, they were
told by the Landlord they would get one-half of the garage during the
Landlord’s construction work, which was supposed to take about six months
to complete (which was to have been completed in the autumn of 2019).
(ref: TT#2b-Nov 2019 messages). They confirmed they fully accepted
that construction work would be in full progress at the
outset of the tenancy, but expected that work to be completed during the term
of their lease.
 
25.  They further testified that they have never been able to secure full use of the garage which continues to be used by the
Landlord and his workers.
 
26.  The Tenants testified that they have been compelled
all along to park one of their two
vehicles on the driveway, which unfortunately resulted in their vehicle (Lexus)
being stolen on June 25, 2021.
 
27.  Review of the signed OREA lease identifies a one-year term for the rental unit which is defined as the “property” at 4181
Sawmill Valley Drive in Mississauga; it states the following in Schedule A
thereto:
 
“The Tenants
acknowledge the basement
is not included in the lease and it will be leased out separately.
The tenants
further acknowledge the basement will be under construction during the time of their lease.




 
The tenants
acknowledge that only the tenants
listed on the agreement will reside on the
property.
The tenants
acknowledge that the driveway and the backyard
will be shared
with the basement tenants.”
 
28.  The Tenants confirmed the rental unit building itself
(sans basement) comprises four bedrooms, a living room, a dining room, a kitchen
(with supplied appliances), two-and-a- half bathrooms and an attached garage.
 
29.  The Tenants also testified concerning the lack of use of the back yard and driveway, but set out different circumstances
leading to their inability for using the back yard and driveway.
 
30.  The Tenants testified that the
Landlord’s construction materials
have partially blocked the driveway since November 2019 (TT#2a). Further, the Tenants testified that the
Landlord started digging up the driveway that they were told was a one-week
disruption; however, for a total of six months, the Tenants testified they were
unable to use the driveway altogether, as well the back yard area (again due to the Landlord’s materials
being there). The Tenants
claim they have never been able to access the back yard at all (reference TT#2c).
 
31.  During the hearing,
these additional claims
were not really
focused on by the Tenants; instead the Tenants focused
mainly on the garage-access claim.
 
32.  In my view, the tenancy
agreement (TT#1) supports
the Tenants’ claim
that the garage forms part of the rental unit they
have been paying for under their monthly rent.
 
33.  I accept that the parties
entered into the tenancy agreement with the understanding there would be construction work during the course of the lease. The lease itself (whether the OREA or the
standard-form lease taken as a whole) is silent on who has rights to the
“garage” area, but I believe it fully reasonable for the Tenants to have
expected the full use of the garage area for themselves, even when the “new
basement tenants” would one day appear on the scene. I also believe the OREA Schedule A sets out clearly that the
Tenants could live “on the property” but would not have rights to the basement
and they could only share the driveway and back yard area.
 
34.  As a result, the one-year lease expired on June 30,
2020, which I would take as the “outside limit” of time for the parties’
initial and reasonable understanding that the garage
would be shared between them. Since
July 1, 2020, the Tenants have persuaded me that they have not secured full use
of the garage because the Landlord continues to use part of the garage area, which I find
substantially interferes with the Tenants’
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit under their tenancy.
 
35.  With regard to the claims of the driveway and back
yard area, I was sufficiently persuaded that the Landlord substantially
interfered with the Tenants for the six months they were not able to use the driveway
due to being dug up. However, in respect of the
other claims of exclusive use of the driveway and back yard, I was not
convinced on a




 
balance of probabilities that the Landlord
substantially interfered. I make reference
to exhibit TT#2e-messages which do not lead me to conclude in favour of
the Tenants.
 
36.  I am mindful
that the signed lease sets out a “shared” use of the driveway and back yard area, albeit with some “future
tenants” that may one day move into the basement unit. I realize the Landlord is not a “tenant”, but the Tenants had
agreed all along to a shared use of the driveway and back yard area. I was not persuaded by the Tenants that
the Landlord’s storage of his materials partly on the driveway and in the back
yard area somehow substantially interferes with the Tenants’ rights under their
tenancy.
 
37.  Based on the above findings,
I am prepared to grant the requested
$800.00 abatement of rent, which I believe is quite a
reasonable abatement to award for the garage access claim and the 6-months of
unavailable driveway. It is evident
to me that the Tenants have been paying $3,500.00 per month for the rental unit
building (sans basement), but the Landlord has not met the full terms of the
contract he entered into, i.e. the tenancy agreement. This abatement covers the period of July 1, 2020 to December 2,
2021 (the date of this hearing).
 
38.  I am also going to order the Landlord to remove all of
his tools, equipment, vehicles or any other belongings of his that are still in the garage on
or before March 31, 2022. I am giving some time for the Landlord
to remove his things as it may take
some time to do so in an orderly fashion. If the Landlord fails to meet this
deadline, I will order an ongoing abatement of rent of $500.00 per month from
April 1, 2022 going forward until such time the Landlord removes all of his
materials and belongings from the garage, and provides full use of the garage
to the Tenants.
 
39.  To be clear, and keeping in mind the Tenants’ other
claims respecting access to the driveway and back yard area, the removal
of the Landlord’s belongings from the garage will not be satisfactorily met if
the Landlord simply moves everything
from the garage to further clutter the driveway or back yard area.
 
40.  As part of the order hereunder, I will ensure the
Tenants are granted proper regular access to, and use of, the driveway
and be able to access
their back yard (in a shared
capacity).
 
Withholding a Vital Service(s)
 
41.  The Tenants testified concerning the loss of
electricity for about a one week period in October 2019 and the non-functioning
furnace for about one month’s time from October 11, 2019 to November
10, 2019. The Tenants also stated that at other times, the furnace
would be disconnected for a day or so, and they experienced power outages or
lights flickering at times (due to heavy machinery being used by the Landlord).
 
42.  On these claims, I was not given the impression that
the Landlord intentionally withheld the vital services of heating or
electricity. Instead, the Tenants’
testimony seemed to suggest the Landlord more likely interfered with these
vital services due to the construction work that has been continually in progress. From the testimonies, it appears




 
the Landlord was aware of the furnace and electrical outages
and he appears to have
taken reasonable steps to have those vital services returned promptly (TT#2b).
 
43.  Based on these submissions, I find that on a balance
of probabilities, the Landlord interfered with the Tenants in October 2019 and November
2019 with both no-heat and no-electricity being a problem for
limited time periods during those two
months. As the requested remedy
has already been granted for another T2 claim, there is no monetary
remedy to be ordered for this claim other than a finding in the Tenants’
favour.
 
Other claims
(not T2 claims)
 
44.  The Tenants provided
limited testimony on a number of maintenance issues, including a breakdown in air conditioning, a dining
room ceiling leak, a bathroom shower cold water issue, and a stove burner issue (TT#2c, TT#2d).
 
45.  As these claims
belong squarely under section 20-maintenance claims (that would
form a T6 application), I did
not consider them under this T2 application.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord shall pay to the Tenants $800.00 which is
abatement of rent awarded in respect of the substantial interference findings under the Determinations section above.
 
2.     The Landlord shall also pay to the Tenants $45.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
3.     The total amount
the Landlord owes is $845.00.
 
4.     The Landlord shall pay the Tenants the full amount
owing by March 4, 2022.
 
5.     If the Landlord does not pay the Tenants the full
amount owing by March 4, 2022, the Landlord will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from March 5, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
6.     If the Landlord does not pay the Tenants the full
amount owing by March 4, 2022, the Tenants may recover
this amount by deducting $845.00from the rent that will come due
on April 1, 2022 for the month of April 2022.
 
7.     The Tenants have the right, at any time, to collect the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
8.     On or before March 31, 2022, the Landlord shall
permanently remove all of his or his contractor’s tools, equipment, vehicles, machinery and other effects/belongings from the
rental unit building’s attached garage to a place off-site (not on the rental
unit property). Once fully removed, the Landlord will immediately hand back the
full use of said garage to the Tenants for their exclusive use under the
tenancy.
 
9.    
Effective April 1, 2022 and for the duration of the tenancy, the Landlord shall also
ensure the Tenants have adequate access
and use of the rental
unit property’s driveway
and the




 
back yard area. To be clear, the driveway and back yard
area are to be shared spaces for the Tenants
to use. However, for the
driveway, the Tenants must be able to enter into
and exit the garage daily with relative ease,
as well as being able to park their vehicles
on the driveway; for the back yard area, the Tenants must be able to
access the back yard with relative ease, for their general enjoyment.
 
10.  If the Landlord fails to comply with the work set out
in paragraph 8 of this order, then the Tenants have the option and are so authorized
to undertake or arrange for the clearance of the Landlord’s effects from the
garage – which may include garage items the Landlord has opted to move onto the
driveway or back yard area instead of off-site -- starting on April 1, 2022. The Tenants are also authorized to
recover the cost removing the Landlord’s effects by deducting the amount from
the rent paid in the month(s) after the work
is done until there is no longer
any money owing.
However, before the Tenants can deduct any amount from the rent, they
must first provide the Landlord with invoices or receipts to support the amount
to be deducted.
 
11.  Separate and in addition to paragraph 10 above, if the Landlord
fails to return
full access of the rental unit
building’s garage to the Tenants on or before March 31, 2022, the Tenants are authorized to deduct $500.00 per
month in rent until such time the Landlord returns full access of said garage
to the Tenants. To be clear, if the
Landlord were to return the access of the garage to the Tenants a few days late
into a rental month’s period, say for example on April 3, 2022, the Tenants
shall be able to deduct the full
$500.00 from the lawful rent due
for the entire month of April 2022, and shall not be considered in arrears of
rent for that month. This regimen of
deduction will continue month to month
until such time the Landlord
clears out said garage fully and returns
its exclusive use to the Tenants.
 
 
 
 
February 17, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Alex Brkic
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy,
5th Floor Mississauga ON
L4Z2G5
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

