Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-24
File number:	
CET-93702-20

Citation:	Gilmour v  Lloyd, 2022 CanLII 61459 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jqg34>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
135 and 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CET-93702-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


BASEMENT, 3263
MAINSAIL CRESCENT
  MISSISSAUGA ON L5L1H3


 




Between:


Jennifer Gilmour Shain Beggs


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Gregory
Lloyd


Landlord



 
 
 
Jennifer Gilmour
and Shain Beggs
(the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that Gregory
Lloyd (the 'Landlord') has collected or retained money illegally (T1
Application).
 
The Tenants also applied for an order determining
that Gregory Lloyd (the 'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced,
threatened or interfered with them, entered the rental unit illegally, altered
the locking system on a door giving entry to the rental unit or residential
complex without giving them replacement keys, substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their household and withheld or
deliberately interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital service,
care service, or food that the
Landlord is obligated to supply under the tenancy agreement (T2 Application).
 
This application was heard by video conference on October 28, 2021.
At 10:17 am, only the Tenants attended the hearing.
 
Determinations and Reasons:
 
T1 Application
 
1.   
The Tenants
filed a T1 application on March 31, 2020 alleging
that the Landlord
charged the Tenants an illegal rent, which they have paid.
 
2.   
The rental
unit is a single-family home. The Tenants
occupy the basement
unit and the Landlord resides in the upper unit.
 
3.   
The tenancy
began on or about September 15, 2019 and by the end of February
2020 the Tenants had moved
out.




 
4.   
The Tenants take the position that they had a verbal
rental agreement with the
Landlord to occupy the basement unit for $1300.00
per month and that rent
included driveway parking, utilities, laundry and internet.
The Tenants submitted into evidence receipt #707327 from the Landlord for
$2600.00 which indicates payment for first and last months rent. The receipt is signed by the Landlord.
 
5.   
The Tenants testified
that the Landlord also accepted the October 2019 rent payment in the amount
of $1300.00. I take this to mean that
by acceptance of this payment
in addition to the first and
last month’s payment, the Landlord understood the terms as described above.
 
6.   
The Tenants
testified that on or about November
15, 2019, the Landlord advised
that the November 2019 rent
was increasing by $100.00 for a total of $1400.00 per month. The Tenants claim that the Landlord did
not provide a notice of rent increase nor provide explanation for the increase. The Tenants allege that the Landlord was
yelling and intimidating.
 
7.   
The Tenants
said they were concerned about
the Landlord’s behaviour and paid the rent
increase as they believed they had no other option.
 
8.   
It was the testimony of the Tenants
that on or about December 15, 2019, while
in the yard of the residential complex the Landlord said there would be another rent increase, pointed to the car and said “to keep it safe.” The Tenants took this
to mean they were required to pay
the rent increase to ensure nothing happened to their vehicle.
 
9.   
The Tenants further testified that on the same day the Landlord indicated he was travelling to Nova Scotia and wanted the
December and January rent paid at the same time and in advance of his trip. For the same reasons
described above, the Tenants paid $1400.00 for both December and January.
 
10.
According to the Tenants,
on or about December 25, 2019, the
Landlord informed the Tenants that
the new rent will be $1400.00 plus utilities, internet and parking.
 
11.
The Tenants
also testified that the Landlord
demanded an additional $100.00
for December and January rent for the use of the wifi and cable
services.
 
12.
The
Tenants allege that they had noticed mail and packages missing and when the
Landlord mentioned the rent increase,
he also said it would “keep their packages safe.”
 
13.
The Tenants
requested to amend the T1 application due to an entry error.
The total they paid as identified in Reason 2 should be $400.00 and not $200.00.
This is supported by the total applied to Reason 1 which is $400.00.
 
14. The final issue that arises with respect
to the T1 application is that the Tenants’ application was silent about the last
month’s rent deposit and interest on the deposit. No request to amend the
application to deal with those issues was made before or during the hearing.
 
Rent increases – Law and Analysis




 
 
 
 
15.   
The relevant
provisions of the Residential Tenancies
Act (the “Act’), 2006 are:
 
Notice of rent increase required
116. (1) A landlord shall not increase the rent charged
to a tenant for a rental unit without first giving the tenant at
least 90 days written notice of the landlord’s intention to do so.
 
Increase void without
notice
(4) An increase in rent is void if the
landlord has not given the notice required by this section, and the landlord must give a
new notice before the landlord can take the increase.
 
Money collected illegally
135.  
(1) A tenant or former
tenant of a rental unit may apply to the Board for an order that the landlord, superintendent or agent of the landlord pay to the tenant any money the person collected or retained in contravention of
this Act or the Tenant Protection Act, 1997.
 
Time limitation
(4) No order
shall be made under this section with respect to an application filed more than one year after the person collected or retained money
in contravention of this Act or the Tenant Protection Act, 1997.
 
Rent deemed lawful
136.  
(1) Rent charged one or
more years earlier shall be deemed to be lawful rent unless an application has
been made within one year after the date that amount was first charged
and the lawfulness of the rent charged
is in issue in the application.
 
Increase deemed
lawful
(2) An increase in rent shall
be deemed to be lawful
unless an application has been made within
one year after the date the increase was first charged and the lawfulness of
the rent increase is in issue in the application.
 
16.
In the matter before
me, not only did the Landlord not provide the Tenants
with a valid notice of rent increase, the Landlord in fact provided no
notice of rent increase.
 
17. It is uncontested
that the Landlord did not give
the Tenants written notice of any of the rent increases attempted during their brief
tenancy. The fact that the Tenants paid the increase and additional charge does not
imply consent nor does it relieve the Landlord from the obligations to give
notice of rent increases in accordance with the Act.
 
18. I find that the Tenants paid an illegal charge to the Landlord in
the amount of $300.00 for rent for
November, December 2019 and January 2020. I
also find the Tenants paid an illegal charge of $100.00
to the Landlord in December 2019 for the cost for wifi as per the




 
Landlord.
 
19. Pursuant to the Divisional Court’s decision in Beauge v. Metcap
Living Management Inc., 2012 ONSC 1160, it is not open to the Board to award a
tenant an amount not claimed in an application unless that application is amended and the requirements of procedural fairness met.
 
20. That being said, based on the uncontested evidence before the Board and the egregious
behaviour of the Landlord, I will exercise my discretion under s. 201(f) of the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) and amend the application on my own
motion.
 
21. An order shall issue requiring the Landlord
to pay to the Tenants the sum of $1300.00 which represents the last month’s
rent for the period of February 15,
2020 to March 14, 2020. The Tenants
returned vacant possession to the Landlord
on or about February 15, 2020.
 
22.
The Tenants
incurred cost of $50.00 for the filing of the application and are also entitled to reimbursement of those costs.
 
T2 Application
 
23. The Tenants filed a T2 application on
February 10, 2020. The allegations in
the application include: illegal entry, changed locks without providing
replacement keys, substantial interference with the Tenants reasonable
enjoyment, harassed, coerced, obstructed, threatened or interfered with the Tenants
and withheld or interfered with the
Tenants vital services.
 
Illegal Entry/Changed locks:
 
24. The Tenants testified that on or about
December 28, 2019 at approximately 3 pm, the Landlord went to the rental unit,
appeared to be under the influence and aggressively attempted to enter the unit. The Tenants had not been provided with a notice of entry
and refused entry to the Landlord.
 
25. Similarly, on or about December 31, 2019,
the Landlord went to the rental unit, attempted entry and pushed his way into
the unit despite the Tenants objections. The
Landlord claimed to need access to the dryer vent. The Tenants observed the Landlord remove the silver vent cover at the back of the dryer, which now
gave direct visual access to the Landlord from outside
to the bedroom. This violation
of privacy caused significant stress
to the Tenants.
 
26. At approximately 8 pm that evening, the
Landlord returned to the Tenants unit and removed the deadbolts and handles
from the door giving way to
the Tenant’s rental
unit. The tenants felt threatened and unsafe. The Landlord peeked through the hole at the Tenants from where
the deadbolt was.
 
27.
The tenants
called the police who arrived and ordered
the Landlord to reinstall the door handles and
lock. The locking system installed was not the same system nor did the




 
Landlord provide the Tenants with a key. The
Police also advised
the Landlord to leave the Tenants alone.
 
28. The Tenants called a locksmith to change the locks but due to the time of the year,
this work was not completed until January 3,
2020, leaving the Tenants feeling unsafe and vulnerable.
 
Harassment, Vital
Service and Reasonable Enjoyment:
 
29. According the Tenants, early in the tenancy
(October 2019) there was increasing and excessive drinking and partying from the Landlord. He was aggressive and unpredictable
resulting in fear for the Tenants. The male Tenant
testified that the Landlord would
often wait for him to leave the unit and approach the female Tenant acting
inappropriately.
 
30. The Tenants further added that on or about
January 1, 2020, the female Tenant went to her car about 7 am to find the
Landlord outside sitting on her Jeep. The
Landlord appeared to be intoxicated and was belligerent. The Tenant fearful, turned to go inside, the Landlord grabbed
the Tenant, spun her around and hit her in the face. He repeatedly yelled he was “going to get”
them.
 
31.
The Police were called, the Landlord resisted arrest and was tasered several times by the
Police. The Tenants testified that
the Landlord was charged with assault.
 
32.
The Tenants
testified that the Landlord breached
the condition of the
no contact order on January 3, 2020. The
Tenants allege that the Landlord caused additional damage to the car and removed
the wheel bolts from
the Tenant’s Jeep. The Police were called and the
Landlord was arrested.
 
33. The Tenants testified that this behaviour
continued on several occasions in January 2020, with the Landlord uttering
threats, damaging surveillance cameras that had been installed by the Tenants for safely reasons and threatening phone calls
from friends of the Landlord.
 
34. On or about January 12, 2020, the Landlord
was at the residential complex, was belligerent and turned down the gas leaving the Tenants
without hot water for 3 days.
The Tenants complained to the Landlord and to a person who appeared to have
connection with the property but nothing was done, leaving the Tenants without
hot water.
 
35. January 23,2020 due to lack of maintenance
with the driveway and build up of snow and ice, Canada Post suspended mail
delivery service. The Tenants allege
they were not responsible for yard maintenance as per the verbal agreement. Accordingly, the Tenants were without postal delivery for
four weeks.
 
36. Section 26 (1) of O.Reg. 517/06 states
that:
 
Exterior common
areas shall be maintained in a condition suitable for their
intended use and free of
hazards and, for these purposes, the following shall be removed:
 
5. Unsafe
accumulations of ice and snow.




 
37.
The Tenants,
as part of the verbal
agreement, were provided access to storage on the
property where items
such as a bike,
Jeep accessories, winter tires, extra side door to Jeep, box of miscellaneous items
(decorations, school items, clothing).
 
38. At the beginning
of the tenancy, the Tenants
were provided with a key for this storage
facility. The Landlord changed the
locks and did not provide them with a key nor opportunity to retrieve their
items.
 
39.
The Tenants
left the rental unit
in fear, on or about February 14, 2020 without
these belongings.
 
40. As part of my analysis, I reviewed evidence
in addition to testimony that included: videos of the Landlord attempting entry
into the rental unit, videos of the Landlord engaging in offensive behaviour,
images showing the handles and locking system removed from the Tenants door, text messages, Ontario Court of Justice
Release Order documentation, rent receipt, receipts for storage, lock smith and camera
surveillance items.
 
41. Based on the uncontested
evidence before me, I
am satisfied on a balance
of probabilities that the
Landlord illegally entered the rental unit on more than one occasion, changed
the locks to the rental unit and the storage access and did not provide the Tenants with keys. It is reasonable
to conclude that the Tenants lived in fear of the Landlord. On the matter of harassment, I am satisfied on a
balance of probabilities that the Landlord engaged in egregious conduct that
left the Tenants feeling unsafe and threatened and as such substantially
interfered with their reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. I am also satisfied that the Landlord, by turning down the gas,
caused the Tenants to be without hot water for several days.
 
Remedies requested in the T2 Application:
 
42. The next issue before me is the quantum of
remedies to award the Tenants. The
remedies the Tenants are requesting in the application are: abatement of rent,
Landlord to stop the aggressive and harassing behaviour, a fine to the
Board, repair and replacement costs, rent differential, moving/storage
expenses, out of pocket expenses and asking the Board by way of other remedies
to impose harsher penalties.
 
Abatement
 
43. The Tenants are requesting an abatement of rent in the amount
of $4900.00, representing
3.5 months. Abatement recognises the idea that a
tenant is paying rent for a bundle of goods and services and if the
tenant is not receiving everything
being paid for then he or she is
entitled to abatement proportional
to the difference between what is being
paid for and what is being received. Although the Tenants remained in the unit
during the events that gave
rise to the application, I find that an abatement is appropriate in this
circumstance. Based on the nature and duration of the problems
and their impact on the Tenant’s use of the unit, I find that the Tenants
are entitled to a
75% rent abatement for a period of 3.5 months for a total of $3675.00.




 
44.
I also
find it reasonable that the Landlord pay back to the Tenants the rent deposit in the amount of $1300.00.
 
 
Stop Activities
 
45. 
As the Tenants moved out of the rental
unit, this request
is moot.
 
Administrative Fine
 
46.
Next, the Tenants are requesting that the Landlord
be ordered to pay an administrative fine. Pursuant to the Board’s Interpretation
Guideline 16:
 
An
administrative fine is a remedy to be used by the Board to encourage compliance
with the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the "RTA"), and to
deter landlords from engaging in similar activity in the future. This remedy is
not normally imposed unless a landlord has shown a blatant disregard for the RTA and other
remedies will not provide adequate deterrence and compliance. Administrative
fines and rent abatements serve different purposes. Unlike a fine, a rent abatement is intended to compensate a tenant
for a contravention of a tenant's rights or a breach of the landlord's obligations.
 
47.
I find that this is an appropriate case for an administrative fine for deterrence and I say this
for the following reasons.
 
48. There is no dispute that the Landlord
behaviour and actions caused serious concern for the Tenants well-being and
safety. An administrative fine is required to deter the Landlord from illegally entering
any Tenants residential unit, acting in an aggressive and threatening
manner with a blatant disregard for the RTA. I do not believe the additional remedies awarded will be
sufficient deterrence.
 
49. I say this in part because the Landlord
engaged in behaviour that he knew, or ought to have known, would have consequences. For example,
the Landlord entered the Tenants
unit without proper notice on more than one occasion.
The Landlord removed the handles
and locking system leaving the Tenants vulnerable. The Landlord’s aggressive behaviour caused both physical and emotional harm to the
Tenant.
 
50.  Regarding the quantum of the fine, the Board’s
Interpretation Guideline says: In setting the amount of the fine,
the Member may consider:
•       
the nature
and severity of the breach
•       
the effect
of the breach on the tenant
•       
any other relevant factors.
 
The amount
of the fine should be commensurate with the breach.




 
51. Here the impact on the Tenants was
considerable because both Tenants endured significant stress due to the Landlord’s actions and causing physical
harm to the female
Tenant. As a result of the conduct of
the Landlord, the Tenants were forced to find alternative housing.
 
52.
Given
all of the above and my knowledge of
similar cased before the Board I
find that a reasonable administrative
fine in all of the circumstances here would be $3000.00.
 
Repair/Replacement Costs
 
53.
The Tenants
are seeking replacement costs in the amount of $1840.00 which include: vehicle damage, security camera
damage, bike, shoes and tires.
 
a)    
The Tenants claim that
during 2 occasions, the Landlord caused damage to the Tenants Jeep.
The Tenants testified that the repairs were paid for with
cash and no receipts. Due to insufficient evidence, I do not find a cost award
appropriate.
 
b)    
The Tenants provided
testimony and evidence that the security cameras purchased and used for this situation were damaged/stolen and are seeking $740.00. The tenants testified
that one camera was stolen and the other broken beyond repair. I find it reasonable to reimburse the
Tenants in the amount of $740.00.
 
c)     
The female Tenant’s bike was
held in the storage unit which she could not access once the Landlord changed the locks and
refused them to retrieve their possessions. The
bike was an X-Trail and purchased in 2014 in the amount of $600.00. The Tenant provided evidence of the bike
and is seeking $200.00 which I find to be reasonable.
 
d)     The female Tenant is claiming $100.00 for the replacement of UGG boots. Due to the
lack of evidence, I do not find a monetary award appropriate.
 
e)    
The Tenants are seeking
$400.00 for snow tires belonging to the Jeep which the Landlord would not allow
the Tenants to retrieve from storage. The
female Tenant testified that the
snow tires were purchased approximately four years ago. The were
Goodyear Tires at $269.00 each for a total of 1076.00. Although no evidence was provided on the purchase
of the tires, I find $400.00
to be reasonable in this situation.
 
Rent Differential
 
54. With respect to rent differential, the
Tenants are now paying $350.00 more per month than
they were for the rental unit. I see
no reason not to grant the Tenants the remedy requested in this regard. The Tenants new unit is more expensive and
is not all inclusive and has been a financial burden on the Tenants. An order will issue requiring
the Landlord to pay the
Tenants $4200.00 which represents the rent differential from xxx to xxx.
 
Moving and Storage




 
55.
The Tenants
are seeking $1617.44. Based on the uncontested testimony and evidence before me, I find this
reasonable.
 
 
Out of Pocket Expenses
 
56. With respect to out of pocket expenses as
they relate to the lock repair, supplies purchased for self protection and moving supplies and based on testimony and evidence, I find the $700.00 being sought by
the Tenants to be reasonable.
 
Other Remedies
 
57. The Tenants
are asking the Board to impose “harsher penalties for repeat offenders or the accused from being able to do this
again…” This remedy does not fall
within the jurisdiction of the Board.
 
58.
This
order contains all of the reasons
for the decision within it. No further reasons shall be issued.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Tenants
application is granted.
 
2.     The Landlord shall pay to the Landlord and Tenant Board an administrative fine in the amount of $3000.00 on or before
March 1, 2022.
 
3.     The Landlord shall also pay to the Tenants
$1300.00 which represents the amount held by the Landlord for the last month’s
rent for period February/March 2020.
 
4.     The Landlord shall pay to the Tenants the sum of $3675.00 which represents the rent abatement.
 
5.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants
$740.00 for the security cameras.
 
6.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants
$200.00 for the
bike.
 
7.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants
$400.00 for the
tires.
 
8.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants $4200.00
for rent differential.
 
9.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants
$700.00 for out of pocket
expenses.
 
10. 
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants
$1617.44 for moving and storage expenses.
 
11. 
The Landlord
shall also pay to the Tenants $50.00 for the cost of filing the
application.




 
12. 
The total
amount the Landlord
owes the Tenants
is $12 882.44.
 
13. 
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants
the full amount
owing by February
15, 2022.
 
14. 
If the Landlord does not pay the Tenants
the full amount
owing by February 15, 2022, the Landlord will owe interest. This will
be simple interest calculated from February 16, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
outstanding balance.
 
15.  The
Tenants have the right, at any
time, to collect
the full amount owing or any balance outstanding under this order.












January 24, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Dana Wren
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert
Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor
Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
Payment of the fine must be made to the Board by the deadline
set out above.
The fine can be
paid by certified cheque, bank draft or money order
made payable to the Minister of Finance. If paying in person, the debt can also be
paid by cash, credit card or debit card.

