Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-07
File number:	
CET-94595-20

Citation:	Taylor v Eswaranantham, 2022 CanLII 87935 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js3nh>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Sections
30, 31 and 135
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number:
CET-94595-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


46
WOOLRIDGE COURT BRAMPTON ON L6Y3V7


 




Between:


Mishka Taylor


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Ranjiny Eswaranantham


Landlord



 
 
 
Mishka Taylor (the Tenant)
applied for an order determining that Ranjiny Eswaranantham (the 'Landlord') failed
to meet the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety, housing or maintenance
standards. (T6 application)
 
The Tenant also applied for an
order determining the Landlord harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with them, substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or by a member of their household and withheld
or deliberately interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital service.. (T2
application)
 
The Tenant
also applied for an order determining that the Landlord
has collected or retained money illegally. (T1
application)
 
This application was filed on May 26, 2020. It was heard in videoconference room 117 on October
28, 2021 at approximately 2:00 pm.
 
The Tenant and the Landlord attended
the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
Illegal Rent Increase (T1):
 
 
1.       
For the reasons that follow, I am
satisfied that the Landlord collected money from the Tenant by way of an illegal rent increase and retained those funds
even though he was made aware of his
error.




2.       
It was the evidence
before that the Tenant moved into the rental unit on August
15, 2017 and vacated the rental unit on June 30, 2020. The Tenant filed
their applications with the Board on May 26, 2020.
 
3.       
The rental unit is a single-family
home. When the Tenant initially moved in the monthly rent was $2,200.00
(not including utilities). It was increased to $2,239.60
effective October 15, 2018 and reduced back to $2,200.00 eleven months later
when the Tenant advised the Landlord it was an illegal rent increase.
 
4.       
Section 116 of the Act requires a
landlord to serve a tenant with a Notice of Rent Increase (NORI) 90 days before
the first effective date of the guideline increase. There is no dispute that
the Landlord did not provide the Tenant the required notice. Accordingly, I
find that rent increase for the 11-month period commencing October 2018 was unlawful and not permitted
under the Act. The lawful
rent for the unit was and continues to be
$2,200.00.
 
5.       
Although the Landlord reduced the
monthly rent back to $2,200.00 when he discovered his error, he did not return the overpayment
of rent for the 11-month period to the Tenant
as promised. Accordingly, the Landlord shall be ordered
to pay to the Tenant
$435.60 which represents the amount
the Tenant paid above
the lawful rent of $2,200.00 for the 11-month period ($39.60 x 11 months =
$435.60).
 
 
 
Interest on the Last Month
Rent Deposit (T1)
 
6.       
The parties
are in agreement that the Landlord has not paid the
Tenant interest on the last month rent deposit (‘LMR’)
during the tenancy.
 
7.       
Pursuant to subsection 106(6) of
the Act, a landlord is required to pay interest to the Tenant annually on the amount of the rent deposit. Given that the Landlord has failed to make that payment to the
Tenant, I find that the Landlord has retained money illegally.
 
8.       
The Landlord shall be ordered to
pay the Tenant $110.55 which represents interest on the LMR from August
2017 to May 2020. The LMR was applied to the
last month of tenancy, June 2020.
 
 
 
Maintenance (T6) and Reasonable Enjoyment (T2):
 
9.       
Although the Tenant filed two applications relying on two different provisions of the Act, both
applications essentially involve the same issues. For my purposes here I
would summarise those issues as follows:




•        
Malfunctioning refrigerator
•        
Malfunctioning washing
machine
•        
Insufficient heating
•        
Insufficient air
conditioning
•        
Flooding resulting in mould in basement
 
10.    
As stated at the hearing, by
operation of subsection 29(2) of the Act the Board is statute barred from
ordering a remedy based on events
or conduct of the Landlord
that occurred more than one year from the date that the tenant filed their
application with the Board.
In addition, by operation of the Emergency Order under the Emergency Management
and Civil Protection Act (which was in effect from March 16, 2020 to
September 14, 2020), limitation periods were suspended and procedural
time periods relevant to tribunal proceeding were affected. The suspension was retroactive to March 16, 2020.
In short, given that the Tenant filed this application on May
26, 2020, the Board can only issue an order for any breach
of the Act that occurred after March 16, 2019.
 
11.     It was the evidence before me that the maintenance
issues involving the refrigerator, washing machine
and part of the damage as a result of a flood in the basement were resolved in June 2018.
Accordingly, the Board is statute barred awarding a remedy for those issues.
 
12.    
The only issues that the Board
can consider in this application are allegations of disrepair of the heating, air
conditioning and the presence of mould in the basement of the unit for the
period after March 16, 2019.
 
Insufficient Heat
 
13.     It was the Tenant’s evidence that the rental property
was not properly heated especially during the winter months. In short, the heat
was not equally dispersed throughout the home
creating cool spots. The Tenant testified that she notified
the Landlord of the issue as early as September 2018 and well into 2019
by phone calls and text messages. In response to her maintenance requests the
Landlord did send a technician to assess the issue in August 2019.
 
14.     It was the evidence before
me that when the technician attended
the property, they discovered the furnace had a leak
and made the necessary repairs. The furnace was found to be working properly.
 
15.     The Landlord submitted when they lived in the home,
they found the master bedroom to be cooler in the winter
since it was located directly
above the garage. During that period the Landlord
would use a plug-in space heater.
 
16.    
The onus rests with the Applicant to establish, on the balance of probabilities, that the Landlord failed to meet the its maintenance obligations under the Act or failed




to comply with health, safety,
housing or maintenance standards and in this instance, that the lack of heat substantially interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the unit.
 
17.     Based on the evidence before
me, I am not satisfied that the Tenant
has met that burden for the
following reasons. It would appear that the furnace is in fact functioning
properly however the “cool spots” in the house remain an issue
in the winter months.
 
18.     The Tenant has failed to establish that these areas
within the home that she claims to be insufficiently heated would trigger a
breach of a maintenance standard as no temperature readings were taken.
Sufficiency of heat is a subjective thing, it is not enough to merely submit
that the room may be cooler than others, temperature readings are required
to establish whether ambient
room temperature is below the threshold set out in the municipal
standards. It the absence of that evidence, the Tenant has failed to meet the
burden of proof. Accordingly, this portion of the Tenant’s application shall be
dismissed.
 
 
 
Insufficient Air Conditioning
 
19.     The Tenant testified that she stopped using the air
conditioner on her own because she feared that mold spores
would spread throughout her home. She was
told by a technician who attended the property that the air conditioning unit
could be turned on and was safe
to use Given the evidence before
me, I am not satisfied that the Tenant has establish
that the air conditioning unit is not in a good state of repair or fails to
comply with health, safety, housing or maintenance standards. Accordingly, this
portion of the Tenant’s application shall be dismissed.
 
 
 
Mould in the Basement
 
20.     The parties are in agreement
that there was a flood in the basement
of the rental property in 2018. The Landlord addressed the cause of the
leak and wipe down the walls in the area with bleach to prevent mould growth on
the walls that sustained water damage.
 
21.     It was the Tenant’s evidence that she notified the
Landlord through phone calls and text messages
that the Landlord’s preventative measures were not sufficient she discovered mould growing
on the walls shortly after the flood. The Tenant submitted text messages into evidence as well as video footage
of the basement on move-in and move-out. The video shows areas which
still had mould.




22.    
The Tenant frustrated with the Landlord
inaction to address the issue mould on
the drywall in the basement and ongoing health concerns hired someone to remove
the affected drywall in the July 2019.
 
23.    
The Landlord disputes the Tenant’s claim that they were informed of an ongoing
issue with mould in the basement
until the Tenant took it upon herself
to replace the drywall.
 
24.     Based on the Tenant’s oral testimony and the documentary evidence in the form of
text messages submitted into evidence, I am satisfied that the Landlord was made aware of the ongoing issue with
mould in the basement as early at the
fall of 2018 and did not take reasonable and appropriate steps to rectify the
problem. Accordingly, I find that the Landlord to meet his maintenance
obligations under the Act and failed to comply with health, safety, housing or
maintenance standards.
 
25.    
The only remedy sought by the
Tenant as a result of this breach is a rent abatement. As stated above,
the Board may consider the period after
March 16, 2019 until the
affected areas were addressed by the contractors hired by the Tenant.
 
26.     Abatement of rent is a contractual remedy based on the
principle that if you are paying 100% of the rent then you should be getting
100% of what you are paying for and if you are not getting that, then a tenant
should be entitled to abatement equal to the difference in value. Here, it was
the evidence before me that the monthly rent for the unit was $2,200.00. The
basement of the two-storey house is
33% of the total square footage. I note being a basement, the impact is not as
keenly felt as if it were on the first or second floor of the house. Given all
of the evidence before me I am of the view that a reasonable abatement of the
rent would be $1,155.00 which represents a 15% rent abatement for the
three and half months it took between the flood and
the removal of the affected drywall in the basement.
 
 
 
Harassment and Substantial Interference
 
27.     The Tenant allegations of harassment and substantial
interference with the Tenant’s reasonable
enjoyment of the unit arise from interactions between
herself and the Landlord. It is the Tenant’s position that the Landlord’s notice
that a family member wanted to move into the home constitutes
harassment and substantial inference. The catalyst of which was a direct result
of the Tenant’s maintenance complaints.
 
28.     It was the Tenant’s evidence
that on February 28, 2020, she
received a letter from the Landlord that he required
vacant possession of the rental unit so that a family member could move in by
June 1st, 2020. The Tenant had a difficult time locating




alternate accommodations given the market rent in the area and pandemic.
During this period the Landlord would often send text messages inquiring if she
found another unit.
 
29.     The Landlord submitted they had exercised their right
under the Act to seek termination of the tenancy to permit their son to occupy the property for residential
purposes. In addition, the Landlord granted the Tenant additional time as
requested by the Tenant.
 
30.     Based on the evidence before me, I am not satisfied
that the Tenant has established that the Landlord serving the Tenant a notice permitted under the Act to constitute harassment or
substantial interference with the
Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the
unit
 
31.    
Another issue raised by the Tenant
involves the interaction between the Tenant and the Landlord involving the
Tenant painting over the floor tiles in the use.
 
32.     It was the Tenants evidence
that we they moved in, she asked the Landlord
if she could repair the
cracks on the tiles. The Landlord agreed and the tenant painted over the tiles.
When the Tenant was vacating the rental property, the Landlord asked the tenant
to remove the paint.
 
33.     The Tenant testified that she received
numerous calls and messages about fixing
the paint on the floors. This continued even when the Tenant was hospitalized.
The Tenant submits that the Landlord’s actions constitute harassment.
 
34.    
The Landlord testified that they
were not aware that the tenant had painted the whole floor black. She believed that tenant was going to cover the floor with vinyl tiles as previously agreed
upon.
 
35.     Based on the conflicting evidence and in the absence
documentary evidence that could support one or the other’s
position, I am not satisfied that the Tenant has established that the Landlord
authorized her to paint the flooring in the property black as the Tenant
asserts.
 
36.     While the term “harassment” is not defined in the Act
it is generally held that “harassment” is a course of conduct that a reasonable person knows or ought to know would be unwelcome.
 
37.     
Based on the evidence
before me, I am not satisfied that the
Landlord harassed the Tenant by
frequently messaging or calling the Tenant. There was insufficient evidence
before me to establish
that the Landlord harassed,
threatened, or coerced the Tenant. After reviewing the text messages that were
submitted into evidence, I don’t see any indication of harassment by the
Landlord. It appears to me that these were legitimate form of communication by the Landlord




to the Tenant with her concerns. In short, the Landlord has not
harassed the Tenant with phone calls
and messages.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
On or before February
18th, 2022, the Landlord shall pay to the Tenant $435.60 which represents the
overpayment of the lawful rent that the Landlord retained illegally.
 
2.    
On or before February
18th, 2022, the Landlord shall also pay to the Tenant
$110.55 which represents interest
on the LMR from August
2017 to May 2020.
 
3.    
On or before February 18th, 2022, the Landlord shall
also pay to the Tenant a rent abatement of $1,155.00 which
represents the impact of the reduce
use of basement in the rental
property.
 
4.     The
Landlord shall also pay to the Tenant
$50.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
5.    
The total amount the Landlord owes to the Tenant is $1,751.15.
 
6.     The
Landlord shall pay the Tenant
the full amount
owing by February 18th, 2022.
 
7.    
If the Landlord does not pay the full amount owing by
February 18th, 2022, the Landlord
will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from February 19th,
2022 at 2% annually on the outstanding balance.
 
 
 
February 7th, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Nicole Huneault
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert
Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor
Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332- 3234.

