Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-21
File number:	
CET-93523-20

Citation:	Dewhurst v Davison, 2022 CanLII 86520 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js1df>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: CET-93523-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


G1, 63 FERRIS LANE BARRIE ON L4M2Y1


 




Between:


Kristopher Dewhurst Ashleigh Wilson


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Craig Davison


Landlord



 
 
 
Kristopher Dewhurst, and Ashleigh
Wilson (the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that Craig Davison
(the 'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with them,
entered the rental unit illegally and substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants
or by a member of their household.
 
This application was heard
in videoconference 117 on October
28, 2021.
 
The Tenants
and the Landlord and the Landlord
representative Donald Cameron attended the hearing as did the Tenant’s witness Joe Sciamanna, property
manager.
 
 
Determinations:
 
 
1.     The Tenants moved into their rental unit on September 1, 2019. They lived upstairs
in 3- bedroom unit of a townhouse
with their 2 young children. The tenants were paying
$1550 per month until they moved out March 28, 2020.
 
2.     The Landlord and Tenant confirmed that the Landlord
occupied the basement
unit. There is a staircase
from the main entrance to the basement unit. The tenants stored and piled their
belongings on the stairs because the Landlord was not to use that area. The
Landlord has his own entrance in the back of the unit.
 
3.     The Tenants claimed
that the Landlord
illegally entered their unit, substantial interfered with their reasonable
enjoyment, harassed or threatened the Tenants’ unit when he entered their unit
on two occasions.
 
4.    
The tenants
stated that regarding their application there were two specific incidents where the Landlord illegally
entered their unit. The first incident occurred
on March 2nd,




 
2020. The landlord went to the Tenants door did
not knock and just entered
the unit. The Tenants wife and children were home at
the time and were frightened. The Tenants notified the property management and
requested a lock change.
 
5.     The second incident occurred on March 5th,
2020 at 5:00 am, the Tenant heard loud music coming from the Landlord’s unit
and could hear the Landlord yelling. the Landlord entered the unit through the basement door, kicked
over all the boxes. The Landlord was yelling and shouting he was looking for
the ladies. The Landlord was pointing a butter knife at the tenant. The Tenant
spent 20 minutes yelling at the Landlord to get out and managed to get the
Landlord out of the unit by telling him they called 911. The Landlord then dropped
the knife and acted like nothing had happened and returned to his unit. The police arrived and spoke with
the Landlord, gave him a warning, and told the
Landlord to go to bed since he was drunk.
 
6.    
The Tenants feared for their
safety and immediately phoned the property manager to explain the situation.
The property manager offered to quickly find the Tenants a new accommodation as they feared
their safety with the Landlord
living in the basement unit. As such, the tenants moved out
March 28, 2020.
 
7.    
The Tenants
stated that they made a request to the property
manager that the lock be changed, or a deadbolt be put on the
door that leads to the Tenants unit.
 
8.    
The Tenant’s witness was called to give his testimony. J.S. is the property manager
at the time and confirmed the
Tenants’ statement of events. The property manager testified he was made aware
of the situation. He stated that after the Tenants called him, he communicated
with the Landlord and that the Landlord explained to him how he was not in the
right frame of mind when the
incidents occurred. He also
testified that the Landlord told him that there is no deadbolt on the door because
he needs to access the upper unit. He would change it but at the cost
to the Tenant.
 
9.     In response the Landlord testified that he wasn’t
trying to break in on the incident of March 2nd, 2020. He testified
that he just returned from a flight from Florida
at which point he couldn’t get thru the back gate
so he pounded on the door so he could get in.
 
10.  He further testified explained that the second
incident, he must have been sleep walking and looking for his girlfriend. He
stated that at times his girlfriend would hide, and he would go looking for her. He stated that he was yelling
out for her and looked
everywhere for her. He continued his testimony by stating he can’t remember
the knife but must have
woken up from sleep walking when the Tenant yelled at him. He admitted he
shouldn’t have been there and has no recollection of the events. He did state
that he is aware of laws on entering units illegally.
 
 
ILLEGAL ENTRY
 
11. 
Section 22 of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006, S.O. 2006, c.17 (‘Act’)
states: A landlord shall not at any time during a
tenant’s occupancy of a rental
unit and before the




 
day on which an
order evicting the tenant is executed substantially interfere with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or the residential complex
in which it is located
for all usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.
 
 
12. 
Section 23 of the
Act states “A landlord shall not
harass, obstruct, coerce, threaten or interfere with a tenant.”
 
13. 
Section 25 of the Act
established a Tenant’s right to privacy and states that a landlord may enter a rental unit only in
accordance with section 26 or 27.
 
14. 
Pursuant to section 26 of the Act landlord
is permitted to enter a rental unit without notice: in emergencies; where the tenant
consents at the time of entry; where the tenancy agreement requires the
landlord to enter at regular intervals in order to clean; and to show the unit
to prospective tenants.
 
15. 
Section 27 of the
Act outlines entries that are permitted with written notice and sets out the minimum
requirements for entry notices,
including that written
notice of entry must be delivered at least 24 hours prior to the entry.
 
16. 
There were two illegal
entries which occurred in this case. The Landlord
did not provide any notice in accordance to the Act and there was no
indication there was any emergency which would permit him to enter without
notice. Also, the Landlord acknowledged that entering the unit without any
notice is illegal.
 
17. 
The Landlord may
not have been in a proper state of mind when these incidents occurred. That does not give him the right to enter the Tenants’
unit illegally. Based on
the testimony and evidence before the Board, I am satisfied that the
Landlord
illegally entered the residential unit on March 2 and 5th, 2020. I
am further satisfied that there was no emergency in the rental
unit at the time and that the Tenant
did not consent to the entry. I therefore find that the entry was an illegal
entry.
Appropriate remedies
will follow
 
 
HARASSMENT, THREAT,
AND SUBSTANTIAL INTERFERENCE
 
18. 
Section 22 of
the Act provides that a landlord
shall not substantially interfere with the reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit for all usual purposes by a tenant.
 
19. 
Section 23 of
the Act specifies that a landlord
shall not harass, obstruct, coerce, threaten or
interfere with a tenant.




 
20.  Harassment is generally defined as “a course of conduct which one knows or should know to be unwelcome by the other person and which one pursues
for no legitimate purpose” (Grimard
v. Knight 2006 O.R.H.T.D.).
21.  
The Landlord wielded
a knife upon entering the unit and frightened the tenants. This is not
reasonable conduct and I am satisfied that the Tenants
not knowing the Landlord’s
intentions, could have been viewed as a threatening or intimidating situation
for the tenants.
 
22.  
These incidents caused fear for the tenants and they were afraid for their safety
staying in their unit. They
could not be certain that the Landlord would re-enter their unit while he was
impaired or not. Changing the locking system was not an option since the
Landlord would have a set of keys as well.
 
23.   Also, the Landlord provided incoherent and confusing
testimony and explanations of the
incidents at the hearing. His claim that he must have been sleep walking or he may have drinks before and the fact he has no
recollections that the police even showed up establishes that his behaviour and
actions are reckless in nature.
 
24.  
The actions
of the Landlord caused the Tenants to move out. This is not unreasonable since there was no certainty
that the Landlord would not re-enter the unit.
The seriousness of the Landlord’s breach was exacerbated by the fact that he
entered during the night and the Tenant’s feared their safety. Under
these circumstances, the Tenants had no choice but to vacate their unit.
 
25.   On the evidence before
the Board, I find on the balance
of probabilities that the incident of March 2nd and 5th,
are unreasonable and alarming. As such, I find the Landlord harassed,
obstructed, coerced, threatened, or interfered with the Tenants.
 
 
Remedies
 
26.  
The tenants testified they were terrified
living in the unit and felt in danger because
of the Landlord’s behaviour
and as such they are seeking the following remedies.
 
i)                   
a rent abatement of $3100.00 for March rent and the last
month’s rent. Their current rent is $1550.00.
 
27.   I find this is reasonable given the gravity of the
actions of the Landlord. Also, in view of the
Tenants moving out because of the Landlord
it will be ordered
that the Landlord
pay the Tenant’s Last month’s
rent deposit that they paid to the
Landlord when the tenant’s moved into the unit. As well the Tenant is entitled
to receive the interest on the last month’s rent deposit.
That amount is calculated
for the period of September
2019 when they moved in until March
2020 and totals $19.63. The Landlord will be ordered to pay
$3119.63 which reflects the rent abatement
for the month of March, the Last month’s rent deposit and the interest payable on
the Last month’s rent deposit.




 
ii)                 
the Landlord to leave the family
alone.
 
28.   The Tenants moved out on March 28,2020
and as such I do not find this to be necessary that the Landlord be ordered to
leave the Tenants alone. Therefore, no order will be issued for this remedy.
 
 
 
iii)                
a
fine to the Board.
 
29.   The Tenant requested
that the Landlord
pay an administrative fine to the Board in
connection with his conduct involving the illegal entry, the harassment, and
the substantial interference. An
administrative fine is a remedy to be used
by the Board to encourage compliance with the Act and is not normally imposed
unless a landlord has shown a
blatant disregard for the Act and other remedies will not provide adequate deterrence and compliance. In my view the remedies
awarded in this order will sufficiently encourage the Landlord
to comply with the Act.
 
 
 
iv)                
rent differential because their new rent is $550.000
more a month and requesting the Landlord to pay $6,600.00 for one year from the date the Tenants moved
into the new rental unit.
 
30.   The Landlord’s actions caused the tenant to move out
of the rental unit. I find the landlord’s behaviour cavalier and disturbing and
warrants an abatement of rent award. The Tenants were put in a situation where
they felt they had to move out. The property manager aware of the Landlord’s
action helped them find a new place in a short time. The monthly rent was $550 more a month
and the tenants
are seeking the abatement for a period of 12 months from the time
the Tenant had to move out. The Landlord will be ordered to pay the Tenants
$6,600.00.
 
 
v)                 
The landlord to pay moving and storage expenses
totalling $200.00.
 
31.   The tenants have incurred out of pocket expenses in
the amount of $200 for moving expenses. Although the tenants did not provide
any physical evidence of the amounts paid for moving,
I find the amount reasonable and order to the Landlord
to reimburse the amount of $200 to the Tenants.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord
shall pay the Tenants $3119.63
which is the rent for the month of March and the last month’s rent deposit
and interest payable.




 
2.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants $6,600.00. This amount represents all the increased rent the Tenants
have incurred from March 28, 2020 to March 28, 2021.
 
3.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants
$200.00 which is the
reasonable out of pocket expenses
the Tenants have incurred for moving expenses.
 
4.     The Landlord shall also pay to the Tenants $45.00
for the cost of filing
the application.
 
5.     The total amount
the Landlord owes is $9,964.63.
 
6.     The Landlord shall pay the Tenants the full amount
owing by March 1st, 2022.
 
7.     If the Landlord does not pay the Tenants the full amount
owing by March 1st, 2022, the Tenant will owe interest.
This will be simple interest
calculated from March 2nd, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
8.    
The Tenants
have the right,
at any time, to collect
the full amount owing or any balance outstanding under this order.
 
 
February 21st, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Nicole Huneault
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

