Metadata:
Date:	2022-06-14
File number:	
EAL-95828-21-RV

Citation:	Seman v Middleton, 2022 CanLII 78013 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jnjf1>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 21.2 of the
Statutory Powers
Procedure Act
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: EAL-95828-21-RV
 
 
In the matter of:      C, 149 HOLITMAN
DRIVE
NEPEAN ON K2J1P6
 
Between:                  Michal Seman                                                                                               Landlord
 
 
and
 




Christine Middleton Glenn Sheasgreen


Tenants




 
 
Review Order
 
 
Michal Seman (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Glenn Sheasgreen and Christine Middleton (the 'Tenants') because
the Landlord requires
possession of the rental
unit for the purpose of residential occupation. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenants
remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was resolved by order EAL-95828-21 issued on November
23, 2021. On December 23,
20221, the Landlord requested a review of the order.
On March 4, 2022,
the Board heard the Landlord’s request for review.
On this date, only the Landlord attend the hearing. The Tenants did not attend and were not
represented.
 
On May 10, 2022,
the Board issued order EAL-95828-21-RV granting the Landlord’s request for review
and their L2 application.
 
On June 8, 2022, the Tenants
filed a request to review
the order EAL-95828-21-RV alleging they were
not reasonably able to participate in the hearing and that the order contains
serious error.
 
A preliminary review of the review
request was completed
without a hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
Were the Tenants
reasonably able to participate in the hearing?
 
1.       
In the request, the Tenants submit
that they did not attend the hearing
because they were told by Tenant Duty Counsel that they
did not have to attend. The Tenants
submit that




 
Tenant Duty Counsel told them this because the Landlord’s application was for eviction and the Tenants had already
vacated the rental unit.
 
2.       
The Tenants’ submissions clearly
indicate that they were aware of the Board hearing,
and they chose not to attend. The
Tenants claim they did not attend the hearing because of legal advice they
received, despite indicating in their request to review that they had issues
they wanted addressed at the hearing. The fact the Tenants may not have
received good legal advice with respect to their attendance at the hearing is
not an error in the order or in the Board’s proceeding. Neither is it a reason for not being reasonably able to
participate in the hearing.
 
3.       
Based on the submissions in the
request, I am satisfied the Tenants were reasonably able to participate in the hearing. I say this because the Tenants confirm
knowing about the hearing and
did not attend. In my view, this demonstrates a lack of due diligence on the
part of the Tenants. A lack of
exercising due diligence is not a reason for which a request to review an order
would be granted. My findings are in
keeping with the guidance of the Court in Q Res IV Operating GP Inc. v.
Berezovs’ka, 2017 ONSC 5541 CanLII (Div. Ct.) paragraph 8 which states:
 
If parties are not diligent in dealing with legal proceedings then they cannot
demand that a Tribunal waste its resources by rehearing matters a second
time. To allow this would undermine the ability of the administration of
justice to deliver timely, cost-effective and final orders.
 
4.       
Based on the above, the Tenants
are not entitled to have the Landlord’s application re- heard because they
failed to exercise due diligence. Therefore, the request to review based on the Tenants’
allegation that they were not reasonably able to
participate in the hearing, is denied.
 
Is there a serious
error in the order or in the Board’s proceeding?
 
5.       
In the request, the Tenants make
submissions in support of their position with respect to the Landlord’s
application. The Tenants allege the
Member made their decision based on misleading evidence
and lies submitted
by the Landlord. The Tenants
further alleged that the Landlord never paid them
compensation equal to one month’s rent as required for having served them an
N12 Notice of Termination (‘N12 notice’).
 
6.       
I have reviewed the Board’s record
and the order. In doing so, I note
that in the Landlord’s evidence package there is supporting documentation that
compensation was paid to the Tenants with respect to the N12 notice. If the Tenants
wanted to challenge
the Landlord’s evidence on this point, then the Tenants should have
attended the hearing to give their evidence on the issue.
 
7.       
With respect to the Tenants
submitting the Landlord mislead or lied to the Board, the opportunity for the Tenants
to challenge the veracity of the Landlord’s evidence was at the hearing and not in a request to
review the order.




 
8.       
A
request to review is not an opportunity for a party to
re-litigate or reargue
their position in hopes of a
more favorable outcome. Nor is it an
opportunity to present evidence and submissions that could and should have been
presented at the hearing.
 
9.       
In the request to review, the
Tenants do not identify any serious error in the order or in the Board’s
proceeding. Given my finding, the Tenants’ request
to review the order, on the grounds of serious error in the
order or in the Board’s proceeding, is denied.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.       
The request to review order EAL-95828-21-RV issued
on May 10, 2022, is denied. The order is confirmed and remains
unchanged.
 
 
June 14, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Dawn Wickett
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Eastern-RO
255 Albert Street, 4th Floor
Ottawa ON K1P6A9
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

