Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-15
File number:	
EAL-94646-21

Citation:	Audet v Menard, 2022 CanLII 100243 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jspqm>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 



 


Order under
Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act,
2006


 




 


File Number: EAL-94646-21




 
In the matter
of:


 
471 EMERALD STREET HAWKESBURY ON K6A1S5


 




Between:


France Audet


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Carole Menard


Tenant



 
 
 
France Audet (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Carole Menard (the 'Tenant') because
the Landlord requires
possession of the rental unit for the purpose
of residential occupation.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on June 24,
2021.
 
The Landlord, the Tenant’s
Legal Representative, Stanley
Coulange, and the Tenant
attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Landlord filed
an application requesting to evict the Tenant, because
she requires the rental unit
for her mother to reside.
 
2.    
The Landlord’s mother testified at
the hearing that she has no ties to Hawkesbury other than the fact that her
daughter, the Landlord, owns property there. The mother testified that the reasons
she wants to move to the rental unit is to be closer to
her daughter and also to live on the main floor of
the house, instead of
residing on the second floor where she currently lives in St. Jerome. The mother testified that she does not see her children often, including the Landlord,
and that she remains in contact with them via telephone.
 
3.     The Landlord’s mother testified that she owns multiple
properties, including one in Prevost, which is 10-15 minutes
from St-Jerome. The Prevost property
is occupied by the
Landlord’s children.
 
4.     The Landlord testified that the upper unit in
Hawkesbury is her permanent residence, but she
never sleeps there because she cannot tolerate
the bad smell (cats’ urine)
emanating from the Tenant’s rental unit.




File Number: EAL-94646-21
 
5.    
The Landlord testified that she is
a dentist and that she woks at various dental offices. She further
testified that she only works one day per week in Hawkesbury. The Landlord testified
that she works on average 2 to 3 days per week in St-Jerome, which is where her
mother currently resides.
 
6.     One of the requirements when issuing an N12 notice to
a Tenant is that the Landlord must act in good faith. I am not persuaded that
the Landlord’s reasons for serving the Tenant with an N12 notice is genuinely
to have her mother move into the rental unit. I am not
persuaded that the Landlord’s mother has a desire or pressing need to relocate
to Hawkesbury. Although the Landlord’s mother testified that she does not see
her children and family often, moving to Hawkesbury would make her more distant
from her family. In St-Jerome, she is 10 minutes away from her grand children.
Also, the Landlord’s mother testified that she has no ties to Hawkesbury. The
fact that the mother resides on a second
floor in St-Jerome is a problem that can reasonably be fixed by acquiring or
finding a property on the main floor in St-Jerome where she currently resides.
I am sure that there must be some apartments on main floors that are available
in St-Jerome that can accommodate the mother’s wishes to live on a ground
floor. Evicting the Tenant in Hawkesbury is not the only and most effective way
of resolving the mother’s problem of residing on a second floor. Based on the
party’s testimony, I am persuaded that the Landlord is unhappy with how the
Tenant is maintaining the rental unit and she wishes to evict her. However, I am not convinced that the reason
she wants to evict the Tenant is to
allow her mother to move into the rental unit. I find that the Landlord’s good
faith in issuing the N12 notice is questionable in this application. To evict
the Tenant, the Landlord must resort to the appropriate notice, comply with the
requirements of the Act and have the evidence necessary to support any eviction
application that she seeks to rely on.
 
7.     Under the present
circumstances, it would be inappropriate to terminate the tenancy based on this N12 notice.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord's application is dismissed.
 
 
February 15, 2022 Date
Issued
Poeme Manigat
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Eastern-RO
255 Albert Street, 4th Floor
Ottawa ON K1P6A9
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

