Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-04
File number:	
EAL-92480-20

Citation:	Hunter v Walsh, 2022 CanLII 49827 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpqh7>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: EAL-92480-20
 
 



In the
  matter of:


2, 122 BROCK STREET BROCKVILLE ON K6V4G1


 




Between:


Jeanine Hunter


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Shane
Walsh


Tenant



 
 
 
Jeanine Hunter (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Shane Walsh (the 'Tenant') because the
Tenant did not pay the rent that the Tenant owes.
 
This application was heard by way of video conference at 9:00 am on December
14, 2021. The Landlord and the Tenant attended the
hearing. The Tenant declined to speak
to Tenant Duty counsel prior to the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Tenant
has not paid the total rent the Tenant was required to pay for the period
from January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021. Because of the arrears,
the Landlord served a Notice of Termination effective September
24, 2020.
 
2.    
The current
awful monthly rent is $675.00
per month.
 
3.    
The Landlord
collected a rent deposit of $675.00 from the Tenant
and this deposit
is still being held by the
Landlord.
 
4.    
Interest on the rent deposit is owing to the Tenant
for the period
from May 1, 2020 to
September 24, 2020.
 
5.    
The Tenant has made rent payments
for July 2021 through to December 2021 in full. The Landlord has received the rent
payments directly from ODSP.
 
6.    
The Tenant
states that he has not paid his lawful rent due to the ongoing
maintenance issues.




 
7.    
The Tenant
states that he plans to pay his arrears of rent after the maintenance issues have been rectified.
 
8.    
The Landlord
states that the Tenant has had no loss of income due to COVID
19 as he is on ODSP. This was undisputed by the Tenant.
 
Section 82
Issues
 
 
9.    
The Tenants
raised the following
issues pursuant to section 82 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’):
 
a)   
Oven in unit not working
b)   
Leak in unit coming
from unit above
c)   
Heat in unit
is not sufficient
d)   
Loud noise and disturbances from another tenant’s
in the complex
e)   
Continuous dog barking by another tenant’s
dog
 
10.  The Tenant is seeking the following remedies:
 
a)   
$300.00 being the amount the Tenant
incurred to replace
the stove
b)   
$1200.00 to replace a bed that was damaged
from the leak and $1000.00 to replace the laptop that was
damaged due to the leak for a total cost of
$2200.00
c)   
$300.00 being the
amount the Tenant incurred to purchase two space heaters for the unit and for the Landlord
to replace all three heaters
in the rental unit with new
heaters
d)   
A rent abatement in the
amount of $5000.00 because the Landlord substantially interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the unit.
 
11.  Section 20 of the Act holds the landlord
responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the
rental units in it, in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with health, safety,
housing and maintenance standards.
 
12.  Section 22 of the Act states a landlord
shall not at any time during a tenant’s
occupancy of a rental unit and before the day on which an order evicting the
tenant is executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit or the residential complex in which
it is located for all usual purposes
by a tenant or members
of his or her household.
 
13.  In Onyskiw v. CJM Property
Management, 2016 ONCA
477 (CanLII), the Court of Appeal
determined that a contextual approach should be adopted when considering a
landlord’s potential breach of subsection 20(1) of the Act and a breach will
not be found if the landlord’s response to a maintenance issue was reasonable
in the circumstances.




 
14.  I must also apply subsection 30(2) of the
Act and consider whether the Tenant advised the Landlord of the alleged breaches
before applying to the Board,
and the parties’ duty to
mitigate found in section 16 of the Act.
 
15. 
Additionally, in
accordance with section 16 of the Act, when a landlord becomes liable to pay any amount as a result
of a breach of subsection 20(1), the tenant
has a duty to take reasonable steps to minimize the
loss.
 
16.  In determining whether the Landlords have
breached their obligation to repair and maintain, the Board must first consider
whether a maintenance or repair issue existed. The Board must then consider when the Landlords
were informed of the issue or should reasonably have been aware of the
issue.
 
Oven
 
Tenant’s Evidence- Oven
 
17.  The Tenant testified that approximately two
months after he moved into the
rental unit in May 2019 that the oven stopped
working properly, and he noticed
that the element
in the oven appeared to be the
wrong element. He notified the
Landlord sometime in either June or July of 2019 of the issue.
 
18.  The Landlord instructed the Tenant to continue to use the oven as it worked
and there was nothing wrong
with it.
 
19.  The Tenant was using the oven on August 30,
2019 when he heard a loud bang. The
Tenant provided a copy of a text message that he sent to the Landlord letting
her know that this had just happened. The
Landlord replied and made sure that the Tenant was not hurt and advised
that she would have someone
come to the property the next day to
look at the oven.
 
20.  The Landlord visited
the rental unit the next day and removed the element.
 
21.  The Tenant testified
that the Landlord
brought an element
back the day after the Landlord
removed the element and the Tenant put the element back into the oven. The element did not work when the Tenant
put it back in the oven and it was inoperable.
 
22. 
The Tenant then contacted
the Landlord the next day to inform
the Landlord that the oven was still not operatable, and the Landlord informed the Tenant that she would come by to take another
look at the oven.
 
23.  The Tenant testified that the Landlord
never came to the property to look at the oven or follow up with the Tenant. The Tenant is unsure as to whether
he contacted the Landlord
again regarding this issue.




 
24. 
In July or August
of 2021, the Tenant purchased
an oven for the unit as it was still not
operable. The Tenant did not notify the Landlord that he had purchased a new stove. The Tenant purchased the stove for
$300.00.
 
Landlord’s Evidence- Oven
 
25.  The Landlord testified that the Tenant
texted her to let her know that the oven was not working. However,
when the Landlord
arrived at the rental unit sometime to take a look
the Tenant advised her that it was fixed and working fine.
 
26. 
The Landlord
advised the Tenant that if the problem
persisted that they would replace
the oven and for the Tenant
to let her know if there were further issues.
The Landlord did not
hear from the Tenant again regarding the issue.
 
27. 
The Landlord
testified that she received a text message
from the Tenant
on September 12, 2019 letting her know that the oven was working fine. The
Landlord did not enter a copy of this text message into evidence.
 
Analysis - Oven
 
28.  I accept that the Landlord informed the
Tenant after the initial inspection that if the problem persisted that she
would replace the oven. However, I
find that the Tenant notified the Landlord that the problem was persisting, but
the Landlord failed to address the issue before the Tenant
replaced the stove on his own. Given these circumstances, I find it would be fair to order the Landlord
to reimburse the Tenant the amount of $300.00
for the cost he incurred to replace the oven.
 
 
Leak
 
Tenant’s Evidence- Leak
 
29.  The Tenant testified
that water began leaking into the bedroom
from the bathroom
in the rental unit above
starting in November 2019.
 
30.  The Tenant notified
the Landlord right
away.
 
31.  The Tenant testified
that the Landlord
did come to the property
a few days after he notified her, and the ceiling was
opened up and the leak was repaired.
 
32.  The Tenant testified
that on December
23, 2019 the ceiling started
to leak again, and he contacted the Landlord immediately by
text message.
 
33.  The following day the Landlord
dropped off drywall
to an adjacent rental unit and asked the Tenant if he would be able to
do the patch work in his rental unit himself.




 
34.  The Tenant advised
the Landlord that he could not do the repairs,
or the drywall work due to issues with his back. The Tenant did move the necessary drywall
required for the patch work from the adjacent unit to his unit.
 
35.  The Tenant testified that he put up a piece of drywall over the hole in the ceiling as he
was having issues with bats and squirrels.
 
36.  The Landlord testified that the leak
damaged a bed and his daughter’s laptop. The
Tenant has not replaced the bed as he cannot
afford to do so. The Tenant stated
that his children will not
sleep on the bed due to the staining
from the water damage. The Tenant stated that his daughter’s laptop would not
turn on due to the water damage and it needed to be replaced. The Tenant testified that his daughter’s
mother paid to replace her laptop.
 
37.  The Tenant testified that he had an
agreement with the Landlord that he would be responsible for grass cutting
and snow shovelling and this agreement commenced in May 2019.
At that time the Tenant’s
rent was reduced
from $725.00 per month to $675.00 per month for the new responsibilities of
the Tenant. He stated that the
agreement never included minor maintenance repairs.
 
Landlord’s Evidence- Leak
 
38. 
The Landlord
testified that in November 2019,
the Tenant let her know that there was a leak in the rental unit.
 
39. 
The Landlord sent a
plumber to the property to take a look at
the leak and the plumber rectified the issue and recommended that the hole not be patched for a while to ensure that the leak was fixed and was
not going to persist.
 
40.  The Landlord testified that several months
later the Tenant reached out to her and advised that the leak was persisting. The Landlord’s husband attended the
property the day after the Tenant advised
her of the issue and fixed the leak. The Landlord stated
that her husband is not a licensed plumber, however, he has 50 years of
construction experience that includes experience with plumbing.
 
41.  The Landlord’s husband
dropped of the drywall to the Tenant
so that he could repair the
hole in the ceiling at a later date once it was determined the leak had
stopped. The Landlord did not find this to be an unfair request as the Landlord
and Tenant had an agreement that the Tenant would perform minor maintenance duties.
 
42.  The Landlord testified
that she and the Tenant had an arrangement that the Tenant
was going to be responsible for minor repairs to the unit, snow
shovelling and grass cutting. She stated that the Tenant’s rent was reduced in
May 2019 from $725.00 to $675.00 to reflect the new responsibilities of the
Tenant.




 
Analysis- Leak
 
43.  I am satisfied, on a balance of probabilities,
that the Landlord responded to the Tenant’s complaints regarding the leak in a
reasonable and timely manner. The Landlord sent a plumber to the property
the following day after being notified of the leak and believed
the issue to be rectified. After
the Tenant notified the Landlord that the problem was persisting the Landlord
sent her husband that has experience with plumbing, and he corrected the issue.
I find that the Landlord repaired the leak in a reasonable and timely manner.
 
44.  However,
while I am satisfied that the actual
leak has been repaired in a timely
manner, I find that the
Landlord has breached section 20 of the Act by failing to take necessary action
to patch the resulting hole in the ceiling.
 
45.  It is the Landlord’s obligation under
section 20 of the Act to perform all necessary repairs, not the
Tenants. In Montgomery v. Van,
2009 ONC 808, the Court of Appeal found that the landlord is not entitled
to transfer its maintenance obligation under section 20 of the Act requiring
the tenant to be responsible for the repairs,
even if the parties have signed a lease purporting to make the tenant
responsible for the repairs The court further held that the only permissible
way this can occur is if the parties enter into a separate severable contract
whereby the Tenant agrees to perform the repairs. Therefore, the Landlord shall
be ordered to perform the necessary repair to the ceiling.
 
46.  The Tenant has not provided any evidence
with respect to the damage of the bed or replacement costs if necessary. The Tenant states
that the bed has not been replaced and is still at the rental unit,
however, his children will not sleep on it due to the water stains
 
47.  The Landlord stated that she is willing to
pay to have the bed steam cleaned for any water damage that the bed may have
incurred due to the leak. I find this
to be fair in these circumstances. I find that on a balance of probabilities that the bed could still be
used after it has been professionally steam cleaned.
 
48.  The Tenant has not provided any evidence
that his daughters laptop was ruined due to a result of the water
leak. The Tenant
states that his daughter’s mother
paid to replace
the laptop as he could not afford
to do so. The Tenant failed to
provide proof that the laptop was damaged due to water or proof that a new
laptop was purchased for his daughter.
 
Insufficient Heat
 
Tenant’s Evidence-
Insufficient Heat
 
49.  The Tenant testified that the lack of heat
became an issue at the beginning of his first winter in the rental
unit. The Tenant
contacted the Landlord
regarding the issue
sometime in December 2019, and at that time the Landlord was away in
Florida.
 
50.  The Tenant stated
that the heat did not seem to be reaching
his unit and that the tenant
that resided in the rental unit below him had control of the thermostat.




 
 
 
51.  The Tenant stated
that the Landlord
was going to reach out to the lower tenant
and advise them to not tamper with the thermostat.
 
52.  The Tenant testified that the heat continued to be an issue and that the lower tenant would constantly tamper with the
thermostat making his rental unit very cold.
 
53.  The Tenant provided
a photograph that was sent to the Landlord on November 17, 2020,
of a meat thermometer that had been sitting on the counter in the kitchen and
it was showing a reading of 4 degrees Celsius.
The text message from the Tenant to the Landlord stated that there was
no heat in the unit and that it was very cold.
 
54.  The Tenant contacted
the Landlord again sometime in December 2020 and advised
the Landlord that his unit was still cold, and the heat did not appear to be working
properly.
 
55.  The Tenant provided evidence of a text
message from the Landlord that he sent her on December 7, 2020 advising
her that his unit was still cold. He asked
the Landlord when she was expected to rectify the
issue. The Landlord’s response was
that she could not afford the repairs at that time as the Tenant was not paying
his rent.
 
56.  The Tenant stated
that the tenant
of the lower rental unit is no longer in possession of the
rental unit and that he is currently receiving more heat to the unit. However, he has had to use portable
electric heaters in the kitchen, bathroom and living room, two of which he had
to purchase. The Tenant could not recall how much he paid for each heater, but
he believed that they were approximately $150.00 per heater
 
57.  The Tenant testified that he has had to use
portable electric heaters in the kitchen, bathroom and living room. The Tenant had one heater in his
possession that he is using but had to go out and purchase
two more heaters.
The Tenant could not recall how much he paid for each heater, but he
believed that they were approximately $150.00 per heater.
 
58.  The Tenant testified
that as of the day of the hearing the current temperature in the unit was reading 15 degrees Celsius with
the electric heaters.
 
Landlord’s Evidence- Heat
 
59.  The Landlord testified
that prior to the Tenant
moving into the rental unit there was never
complaints from the previous tenant regarding heat.
 
60.  The Landlord testified
that she had someone come to look at the furnace after it was determined that it was not the tenant
in the lower rental unit tampering with the thermostat as the problem persisted
after that tenant vacated the unit.
 
61.  The Landlord stated that the HVAC
technician inspected the furnace sometime in December 2020 and instructed the Landlord that a duct fan would increase the air flow to
the Tenants unit.




 
62.  The Landlord has attempted to order the duct fan, and have it installed
but this has proven to be very challenging due to
COVID.
 
63.  The Landlord testified
that she is aware that the Tenant is using portable electric
heaters and that the she pays for the hydro at the rental unit and
therefore this does not present any financial implications to him.
 
64. 
The Landlord
testified that she has had the HVAC technician at the rental
complex four times and that
the furnace is only 15 years old. She
stated that the rental complex is a very old building and
that the furnace is operating.
 
Analysis- Insufficient Heat
 
65.  I find that the Landlord did breach their
obligation under s. 20(1) of the Act by failing to ensure that the furnace
consistently provides sufficient heat to the rental unit. I accept that the Landlord
had an HVAC technician to the property
on four separate
occasions and it was
determined that the furnace is operating. However,
at one of the inspections the HVAC technician recommended that a duct fan be
installed to help push air through the ducts to the Tenant’s unit. I appreciate that the Landlord may have
been experiencing some delays with the part and installation due to COVID 19,
however, almost one year has passed since the recommendation from the HVAC
Technician to install a duct fan and
the work has yet to be completed. Further,
the parties agree that the Tenant has been regularly paying his rent for the
last 6 months. I find that the Landlord’s failure to arrange for the
installation of the duct fan in a timely manner is a breach of section 20.
 
66.  I find that the Landlord
is in breach of Section
21 of the Act which states:
 
A landlord
shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy
of a rental unit and before the day on which an order
evicting the tenant is executed, withhold the reasonable supply of any vital
service.
 
67.  Pursuant to section 4 of the O.Reg 516/06
under the Act, the Landlord is legally required to ensure that the unit is consistently heated
to at least 20 degrees
during the period from
September 1 to June 15. I am not
satisfied that the rental unit was heated to 20 degrees during this period. The Tenant provided a photograph that was
sent to the Landlord on November 17, 2020, of a meat thermometer that had been
sitting on the counter in the kitchen and it was showing a reading of 4 degrees
Celsius. I appreciate that this
photograph was taken prior to the lower
level tenant vacating
that was tampering with the thermostat, however this does not take away the obligation
of the Landlord to ensure the unit is heated to 20 degrees. The Tenant testified that as of December
14, 2021 the temperature in the rental unit was 15 degrees with the assistance
of three electric portable space heaters. This temperature is still 5 degrees
below the minimum required temperature. It is likely that once the duct fan is installed this could substantially
increase the amount of heat flow to the rental unit.
 
68.  The Landlord stated
that she is willing to pay the Tenant $300.00
for costs incurred
by the Tenant to purchase two
electric portable heaters. The
Landlord also agreed that she




 
would replace
all three electric
portable heaters currently in the rental unit with new
electric portable heaters. I find
this to be fair in these circumstances.
 
 
Reasonable Enjoyment
Tenant’s Evidence- Noise Disturbances
69.  The Tenant testified
that the tenants
that live in the rental
unit above him fight constantly. At times it sounds like
bodies are being slammed against the wall. The
Tenant stated that this behaviour frightens his children.
 
70.  On Jan 10, 2019 the Tenant testified that a
fight broke out in the upper unit and that the fight was so bad and loud that
the Tenant’s daughter left the rental unit as she was scared. The Tenant called
the Landlord to advise of the issue and was instructed by the
Landlord that there wasn’t anything
that she could
do and that the Tenant
needed to call the Police. The Tenant contacted the Police and they came to the rental
complex and spoke to the tenants
in the upper unit. The
Tenant provided a Police
Incident Number of BR20000304.
 
71.  The Tenant testified
that he called
the Police and the Landlord
on the following dates as the tenants in the upper unit were
fighting and it was very loud. The
dates these occurrences took place were as follows:
a)   
March 9, 2019- Police
Incident Number BR20002096
b)   
May 19, 2019- Police Incident Number
BR20002121
c)   
September 9, 2019- Police Incident Number
BR20004001
d)   
September 10, 2019- Police Incident Number BR20008102
 
72.  The Tenant testified that each time he
called the Landlord she instructed him to call the Police and that there was nothing
that she could do. He testified that the Police came to the property and each time they spoke
to the tenants in the upper unit.
 
73.  The Tenant testified
that after the incident on September 10, 2019, that there have been
approximately thirty more occurrences but the Tenant did not reach out to the
Landlord as the Landlord refused to assist with the prior occurrences and just
kept instructing the Tenant to call the police.
 
74.  The Tenant stated that the Landlord should
have contacted the Police to obtain the Occurrence Report Numbers so that she could file an application with the Board
against the tenants living in the upper unit.
 
75.  The Tenant also testified that other
tenants have constantly let their dogs bark for days on end. The Tenant
contacted the Landlord
in December 2020 to advise
her of the dogs barking and
the Landlord stated that she would speak to the tenants regarding the dogs
barking. The Tenant never heard back
from the Landlord regarding the barking dogs.
 
76.  The Tenant testified
that one of the tenants
whose dog was constantly barking
had been arrested and was
incarcerated. He testified that the
Landlord did call the Police to have




 
the dog removed from the property
in December 2020 as the tenant had been
incarcerated.
 
Landlord’s Evidence-
Noise Disturbances
 
77.  The Landlord testified that each time the
Tenant contacted her that she contacted the tenants and asked them to please refrain from fighting in the unit and being loud and to
be respectful of other tenants.
 
78.  The Landlord testified
that each time the Tenant
let her know about the barking dogs that
she reached out to the tenants to ask them to please keep the dogs quiet and to
be respectful of other tenants.
 
79.  The Landlord stated that she has not filed
an application with the Board against the tenants as she was not present
at the rental complex when these occurrences happened. She stated that she did reach out to the Police
Department and she was instructed that they could not provide her any
information or the occurrences numbers as she was not a party to the
occurrence.
 
Analysis- Noise
Disturbances
 
80. 
In
this case, the behaviour of the Landlord, which the Tenant claim caused a
substantial interference with his reasonable enjoyment of the unit, is the
Landlord’s failure to take reasonable and effective
steps to address
the Tenant’s complaints about other tenants
in the building making excessive noise.
 
81. 
A landlord’s duty to address
substantial interference with the reasonable enjoyment of a tenant by another tenant was affirmed
by the Divisional Court in Hassan v. Niagara Housing Authority, [2000] O.J. No.
5650. The Court held as follows:
 
It is not that the other tenant's actions are imputed to the landlord,
but, rather, the landlord's legal responsibility to provide the tenant with quiet enjoyment that gives rise to
the responsibility on the landlord to take reasonable steps to correct the
intrusion of the neighbouring tenant on the tenant's right to quiet enjoyment.
 
As under the old Landlord
and Tenant Act so under the new Tenant Protection Act, the landlord has the positive obligation to provide the
tenant with quiet enjoyment and take the reasonably necessary action against
any tenant that denies a neighbouring tenant quiet enjoyment of his premises.
 
On the evidence before it, there was no evidence that justifies the
finding of the tribunal that the landlord took reasonable steps within a reasonable length
of time to restore to the tenant the quiet
enjoyment to which he was entitled.




 
Writing threatening letters to the offending tenant, holding
meetings with the offenders and offended,
is not enough if the harassment continues and, indeed,
increases. The landlord had to do something effective, if necessary, make
application to terminate the tenancy of the offender.
 
 
82.  I find that the Landlord breached their
obligation under s. 22 of the Act by failing to take reasonable steps to address
the disturbing noise created by the tenants
in the residential complex.
 
83.  While I accept
that the Landlord
did contact the tenants causing
a noise disturbance, after
receiving noise complaints from the Tenant, this proved to be ineffective. The
Landlord should have taken further action such as writing warning letters to
the tenants that were causing the disturbance, serving Notice of Termination to
the tenants and filing eviction applications with the LTB. I appreciate that the Landlord did not
personally witness the disrupting conduct, however, the Landlord does not need
to personally witness the conduct in order to take these steps. The Landlord could have served Notice of
Termination paperwork to the tenants and
filed an application with the Board on the basis of the Tenant’s complaints. The Landlord could call the Tenant as a
witness at a hearing with the LTB.
 
84.  The Tenant testified
that he stopped
notifying the Landlord
after September 10, 2019 that the noise disturbances continued. I can appreciate that the Tenant stopped informing the Landlord
as he was told consistently that there was nothing she could do. Since the Landlord was aware that the
issue was ongoing, she could have followed up with the Tenant to see if the
issue had improved.
 
85.  In respect to the noise disturbances the
Tenant is seeking a rent abatement of $5000.00. I find that the amount of the abatement that the Tenants
are requesting is unreasonable, I appreciate that there has been an impact
on the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment, but I
also find that the Landlord
did start to take necessary
steps by reaching
out to the tenants that were
causing the disturbances, however they did not follow through. The Tenant also stopped notifying the
Landlord of further incidents.
 
86.  Considering these circumstances, I find it reasonable to award a rent abatement of
$1500.00.
 
 
Damaged Property
 
Tenant’s Evidence- Damaged Property
 
87.  The Tenant testified that sometime in the
Spring of 2019 another tenant in the rental complex damaged his lawnmowers by slashing the tires and putting water in the gas tank of the lawnmower. The Tenant contacted the Landlord to let
her know of the issue and the Landlord instructed the Tenant to contact the
Police.




 
88.  The Tenant contacted the Police and the
Police informed the Tenant that they had no way of proving that the other
tenant did damage
the lawnmowers. The other Tenant
no longer resides at the residential complex.
 
Landlord’s Evidence-
Damaged Property
 
89.  The Landlord testified
that she had no knowledge
of any damage to the Tenant’s
lawnmowers and that she has no way of controlling any damage to the Tenant’s
belongings that were left in the yard of the rental complex.
 
Analysis- Damaged
Property
 
90.  I find that the Landlord did not damage the
Tenant’s lawnmowers. The Landlord has no personal knowledge of any damage done
to the Tenant’s lawnmowers by another tenant. It would be unreasonable to hold
the Landlord responsible for damage incurred to the Tenant’s lawnmower while it
was being stored in the yard of the residential complex. Further, the Tenant’s evidence
is insufficient to establish on a balance
of probabilities that the damage was even caused by the
former tenant.
 
 
Relief from Eviction
 
 
91.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to postpone the eviction until February 28, 2022, pursuant
to subsection 83(1)(b)
of the Act.
 
92.  In making this finding I considered the
evidence of the Tenant that since July 1, 2021 to the date of the hearing his
rent has been paid directly to the Landlord by ODSP. These payments demonstrate the Tenant’s intention to preserve
the tenancy. The Tenant has also indicated
that he has plans to pay his arrears once the maintenance issues are dealt with. I have also considered that the Landlord did reach out to the
Tenant on several occasions to encourage a payment plan, however, the Tenant
advised the Landlord that he would pay the rent arrears after she fixed the
maintenance issues.
 
93.  The Tenant provided a letter dated May 11,
2021 from the Children’s Aid Society confirming that his children have been in his
care since December 14, 2020. The
Tenant is currently on ODSP and is finding
it financially difficult
to support his family. The Tenant
has been trying to apply for the Child Tax Benefit but there have been some
challenges as he needs to prove that the children are now in is care. The Tenant has been searching for a larger
apartment that could accommodate his needs but due to COVID 19 this been very difficult as the
inventory is low, and the rental prices are very high.




 
It is ordered that:
 
1.           
Unless the Tenant voids
the order as set out below, the tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenant is terminated. The Tenant must move out of the rental unit on or before
February 28, 2022.
 
2.           
The Tenant shall pay to the Landlord $6,364.35*, which represents the amount of rent
owing and compensation up to January 4,
2022, less the rent deposit and interest the Landlord owes on
the rent deposit and less a rent abatement of $2,100.00.
 
3.           
The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord
$22.19 per day for compensation for the use of the unit starting January 5, 2022
to the date the Tenant moves out of the unit.
 
4.           
The Tenant
shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing
the application.
 
5.           
If the Tenant does not
pay the Landlord the full amount owing* on or before January 15, 2022, the Tenant
will start to owe interest.
This will be simple interest
calculated from January 16, 2022 at .00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
6.           
If the unit is not vacated
on or before February 28, 2022, then starting March 1, 2022, the Landlord
may file this order with the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced.
 
7.           
Upon receipt
of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord, on or after March 1, 2022.
 
8.           
If the Tenant wishes to void this order and continue
the tenancy, the Tenant must pay
to the Landlord or to the Board in trust:
i)            
$7,811.00 if the payment
is made on or before
January 31, 2022, or
ii)           
$8,486.00 if the payment
is made on or before
February 28, 2022**.
 
9.           
If the Tenant does not make full payment
in accordance with this paragraph and by the appropriate deadline, then the
Landlord may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so
that the eviction may be enforced.
 
10.        
The Tenant may make a
motion to the Board under subsection 74(11) of the Act to set aside this order if they pay the amount required under that subsection on or after March
1, 2022 but before the Sheriff gives vacant possession to the Landlord. The
Tenant is only entitled to make this motion once during the period of the
tenancy agreement with the Landlord.
 
11.        
The Landlord shall
repair or replace the drywall that was removed due to the water leakage by later than January 25, 2022. The Tenant will provide access
to the property for the purpose of this repair. The Landlord will provide the Tenant with proper notice of
entry.
 
12.        
On or before January
25, 2022, the Landlord shall pay the costs to have the Tenant’s
bed professionally steam cleaned. The
Landlord will arrange for a steam cleaning




 
company to come to the rental
unit. The Landlord
will provide the Tenant with at least 5 days written notice for this
appointment. The Tenant will provide
access to the property for the purpose of the steam cleaning of the bed. The Landlord will provide the Tenant with
proper notice of entry.
 
13.        
The Landlord
shall provide the Tenant with three new electric portable
heaters similar to the current heaters
in the rental unit by no later than January
11, 2022. Should the
Tenant vacate the rental unit, the electric portable heaters are to remain at
the rental unit and be the property of the Landlord.
 
14.        
The Landlord
shall contact a licensed HVAC company and arrange to have the duct fan installed no later than January 18, 2022. In the event the repair cannot be
completed by this date due to COVID-19 issues, the Landlord shall notify the
Tenant in writing of such delay and provide an expected date of installation.
 
15.        
The Tenant shall notify
the Landlord immediately of any future
noise complaints.
 
16.        
If the Tenant notifies
the Landlord of future noise complaints the Landlord will immediately issue warning letters
to the tenants. Should the Tenant notify
the Landlord that the issue
still persists after the warning letter, the Landlord will serve the tenants
with a Notice of Termination and file an application with the Board if the
problem persists
 
January 4, 2022                                                                                                                                                    Date Issued                                                                      Trish
Carson
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Eastern-RO
255 Albert
Street, 4th Floor Ottawa ON K1P6A9
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction
expires on September 1, 2022
if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental
unit is located.
 
*           Refer to section A on the attached Summary
of Calculations.
**         Refer to section B on the attached Summary
of Calculations.




Schedule 1 SUMMARY OF CALCULATIONS
 
File Number: EAL-92480-20
 
A.          
Amount the Tenant must pay if the tenancy
is terminated:
 



Reasons
for amount owing


Period


Amount




Arrears:
(up to the termination date in the Notice of Termination)


January 1, 2020 to
September 24, 2020


$2,832.60



Less the amount the Tenant
paid to the
Landlord                                                                                        -$4,050.00



Plus compensation: (from the day
after the termination date
in the Notice
to the date of the order)


September 25, 2020
to
January 4, 2022


$10,362.73




Less the rent
  deposit:


 


-$675.00




Less the interest owing on the rent deposit:


May 1, 2020 to September
24, 2020


-$5.98



 



Less amount owing to the Tenant for
abatement/rebate:


 


-$2,100.00



 



Amount owing to the Landlord on the order
date:(total of previous
  boxes)


$6,364.35



 



Additional costs the Tenant
must pay to the Landlord:


$186.00



 



Plus daily compensation owing for each day of occupation
  starting January 5, 2022:


$22.19 (per day)



 



Total the Tenant
must pay the Landlord if the tenancy
is terminated:


$6,550.35, +
$22.19
per day starting January 5,
2022



 
 
 
 
B. 
Amount the Tenant
must pay to void the eviction order and continue
the tenancy:
 
1.           
If the payment is made on or before
January 31, 2022:
 



Reasons for amount
owing


Period


Amount




Arrears:


January 1, 2020
to January
31, 2022


$13,775.00



Less the amount the Tenant                                                                      -$4050.00
paid to the Landlord




File Number: EAL-92480-20
 
 



Less amount owing to the Tenant for
abatement/rebate:


 


-$2,100.00



 



Additional costs the Tenant must pay to the Landlord:


 


$186.00



 
 
 



Total the Tenant
must pay to continue the tenancy:


On or before
January 31, 2022


$7,811.00



 
 
 
2.           
If the payment
is made after January 31, 2022 but on or before February
28, 2022:
 



Reasons for amount
owing


Period


Amount




Arrears:


January 1, 2020
to February
28, 2022


$14,450.00



Less the amount the Tenant                                                                      -$4,050.00
Paid to the
Landlord



Less amount owing to the Tenant for
abatement/rebate:


 


-$2,100.00




Additional costs the Tenant must pay to the Landlord:


 


$186.00




Total the Tenant
must pay to continue the tenancy:


On or before
February 28, 2022


$8,486.00



 

