Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-01
File number:	
EAL-93146-20

Citation:	Blanchard v Gadoury, 2022 CanLII 86334 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js1dn>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: EAL-93146-20
 



In the matter
of:


3, 282 ST-DENIS STREET VANIER ON K1L5J3


 




Between:


Robert Blanchard


Landlord




 


and


 




 


Paul Gadoury


Tenant



 
Robert Blanchard (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Paul Gadoury (the 'Tenant') because the
Tenant did not pay the rent that the Tenant owes.
 
This application was heard by
videoconference on June 22, 2021 and on November 19, 2021.
 
The Landlord and the Tenant attended both hearings. After the first hearing
that was adjourned due to time limitations,
interim order EAL-93146-20-IN1 issued on June 24, 2021.
 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Matter
 
1.    
It was noted that the Landlord
failed to comply
fully with the interim order EAL-93146-20-
IN1 issued on June 24, 2021, in respect of the rent receipts that the Landlord
was to provide the Tenant by a certain deadline.
 
2.    
The Landlord did provide
the Tenant with receipts late (around July 12, 2021),
but as it turned out, the receipts themselves were still not complete.
 
3.     After taking submissions from both parties on this
preliminary matter, I will simply order the Landlord to provide full, proper receipts
to the Tenant on or before February
11, 2022.
 
L1 Application
 
4.    
The Tenant has not paid the total
rent the Tenant was required to pay for the period from December 1, 2020 to November 30, 2021. Because
of the arrears, the Landlord
served a Notice of Termination
(N4) effective December 17, 2020.
 
5.     The monthly rent is
$670.00
 
6.    
The Landlord collected a rent deposit
of $650.00 from the Tenant
and this deposit
is still being held by the
Landlord.




 
7.    
Interest on the rent deposit is owing
to the Tenant for the period from December 1, 2015
to December 17, 2020 (the termination date in the N4 notice).
 
8.    
After receiving submissions from both parties, I find that on a balance of probabilities, the Tenant vacated the rental unit on April 1, 2021, thus terminating the tenancy on that date.
 
9.     As well, after receiving the submissions from the
Landlord, I determined that the N4 notice of termination was invalid due to an incorrectly amount
of rent shown as charged for December 2020. This error was continued into the L1
application itself. At the hearings,
the matter of correct rent being $670.00 was established. As the Tenant vacated the rental unit on
April 1, 2021, I was able to use both parties’ submissions to determine the
amount of rent arrears owing as of the date of termination.
 
Section 82
Claims
 
10.  At the hearings,
the Tenant raised
the following issues pursuant to section 82 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act'):
 
•        
substantial interference in respect
of safety and security issues
due to other residents in the building (evidence TT#1);
 
•        
substantial interference on November
2, 2020, November
17, 2020 and March
27, 2021 (exhibit TT#2);
 
•        
maintenance issues including a ceiling leak, a hot water tank issue, etc (exhibit
TT#3).
 
•        
harassment by Landlord in respect of intimidating messages
sent (exhibit TT#4).
 
Substantial Interference: other
residents (TT#1)
 
11.  The Tenant testified
to a number of incidents
mainly involving the resident in unit no. 2
who the Tenant said had created a “drug den” in unit no. 2. The Tenant described a number of incidents
starting from April 7, 2020 and onwards that he said substantial interfered
with his reasonable enjoyment, including:
 
(a)  
an incident on April 7, 2020 when the resident or the resident’s guests shattered a common area window that is located a
metre or so from the rental unit. The
Tenant called the Landlord immediately and the window was boarded over with
cardboard.
 
(b)  
the outside door egress
was blocked with bikes and scooters regularly that belonged to the
resident’s guests who frequented unit no. 2.
 
(c)  
the outside yard and sidewalk
regularly had deposits of human waste, toxic and flammable materials
that the Tenant stated was littered by the resident
and his guests.
 
(d)  
the resident and his guests used drugs and dealt drugs “all the time”, and even people smoked drugs outside the Tenants’
unit. The Tenant added the Landlord
finally served




 
an N7 notice on the
resident on or about October
10, 2020. As well, police
were called frequently to the
building to deal with the resident and his guests.
 
12.  In addition to the foregoing, the Tenant claimed
the deadbolt locking
mechanism that was removed on the outside of the rental
unit also compromised his safety and security, especially with the illegal
activities regularly conducted by the resident in no.2.
 
13.  Finally, the Tenant testified concerning the exit door
being blocked by another tenant’s garbage and recycling
bins, and the main door being blocked
by a wheelchair. When he tried to confront the female tenant
about her blocking two exits, he was told to communicate with her only by
‘mail’.
 
14.  The Landlord testified that he had rented unit no. 2
to a homeless man in need, who ended up becoming
a real problem for the building. The stated reason
was the unit no. 2 resident started inviting his friends
who were involved in drugs like fentanyl.                                                                                                                          The Landlord stated he took the Tenant’s
complaints seriously but could not simply throw the resident out. He said he tried first talking a number of
times with the resident in unit no. 2, but after nothing changed, the Landlord
served the resident an N7 notice on October 10, 2020. He provided the Board case file of EAL-92300-20 which he said
was heard much later. (The Board’s
legal records indicate the L2/N7 hearing was held on November 17, 2021, well
after the Tenant had vacated the rental unit).
 
15.  The Landlord testified that after the L2/N7 Board
hearing, the resident
in unit no. 2 no longer has been a problem as
everything there is now peaceful.
 
16.  With regard to the deadbolt lock issue, the Landlord clarified that the Tenant’s
rental unit exit door is locked with a deadbolt, but that that door enters into
a small “storage” area that has a second door. It is that second
door that the Tenant has claimed under
section
82. The Landlord confirmed
that the second door has a ‘handle-lock’ mechanism but does
not have a deadbolt lock.
 
17.  The Landlord confirmed
the shattered-window incident
had happened, and he said he
took the steps he believed necessary to board over that window, which is a
window belonging to unit no. 2.
 
18.  Finally for the issue of the blocked entrances, the
Landlord stated it was a Mme. Mantha had blocked the entrances. The Landlord testified he has a good
relationship with Mme. Mantha in that she has helped the Landlord with snow
cleaning responsibilities and to monitor situations for him,
such as monitoring the drug activities in unit no. 2 for him. The
Landlord stated he lives over 30 minutes away from the rental unit building, so
Mme. Mantha has helped
him in this regard. He testified Mme Mantha told him
that she and the
Tenant had a big argument over the blockages, which he was informed ended up
with some law enforcement officer being called. In any event, the Landlord stated he addressed the blocked
entrance issues with Mme. Mantha.
 
19.  The parties made further submissions on Mme. Mantha,
for example a propane tank was
raised, but I do not believe those further submissions relate directly to the
claims at bar.




 
20.  Based on these submissions from both parties,
I find that on a balance of probabilities,
the Landlord substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the
Tenant, primarily stemming from the activities emanating from the resident in
unit no. 2.
 
21.  I do not find any substantial interference with regard to the
other claims under
TT#1.
 
22.  A landlord’s duty to address
substantial interference with the reasonable enjoyment of a tenant by another tenant was affirmed
by the Divisional Court in Hassan v. Niagara Housing Authority, [2000] O.J.
No. 5650 (hereinafter “Hassan”). The
Court held, inter alia, as follows:
 
“It
is not that the other tenant's actions are imputed to the landlord, but,
rather, the landlord's legal responsibility to provide the tenant with quiet enjoyment that gives rise to
the responsibility on the landlord to take reasonable steps to correct the
intrusion of the neighbouring tenant on the tenant's right to quiet enjoyment.”
 
23.  In other words, a landlord has the positive obligation
to provide a tenant with quiet enjoyment and take the reasonably necessary action against
any tenant that denies a neighbouring tenant quiet enjoyment of
his premises.
 
24.  On the evidence before the court in Hassan,
there was no evidence that justified the finding of the tribunal
that the landlord
took reasonable steps
within a reasonable length of time to restore to the tenant the quiet enjoyment to
which he was entitled.
 
25.  Writing threatening letters
to the offending tenant, holding
meetings with the offenders
and offended, is not enough if the harassment continues and, indeed, increases.
The landlord had to do something effective, if necessary make application to terminate the tenancy of the offender.
 
26.  Hassan, supra, was cited
with approval in First Ontario Realty Corp. v. Appelrouth, 222
A.C.W.S. (3d) 790 (“First Ontario
Realty”), wherein the Divisional Court stated, in part, as follows:
 
“The Board's
statement that a landlord
can be held liable for the actions
of a third party is a misstatement of the law. In order to
provide a remedy under s. 29(2), the Act requires the Board to find that the
landlord is itself responsible for causing interference with a tenant's
reasonable enjoyment. For example, a landlord may be liable for failing to take
reasonable steps to stop a tenant from making noise that disturbs other tenants
(indeed, the Board correctly stated this proposition earlier at para. 51 of the
Reasons). Notably, the landlord in such a situation is not "liable"
for the actions of the noisy tenant. Rather, the landlord would be responsible
because of its own failure to take reasonably necessary actions to ensure that
all tenants could reasonably enjoy the rental premises (Hassan v. Niagara
Housing Authority (2001), 48 R.P.R. (3d) 297 (Div. Ct.) at paras. 16- 18).”
 
27.  In my view, it follows
from Hassan and First Ontario
Realty., supra, that a
landlord, faced with complaints about offending conduct
by one tenant against another
tenant, must take reasonable steps, within a reasonable
amount of time, to investigate the offending




 
conduct, appropriately address
the conduct and, where the conduct does not cease, issue a notice of termination to the alleged
offending tenant(s). The service
of a notice of termination by a landlord is a
significant, and an often effective, first step when the offending conduct does not cease as is alleged here. If the offending
conduct continues even after the notice of termination step is taken, a next
step might be the filing of an application with the Board to terminate that
tenancy.
 
28.  In this case, I was persuaded by parties’ submissions
that the Landlord did take some steps to resolve
the various incidents coming from the resident in unit no. 2. The problem
is that whatever initial steps were taken, it took between April 2020 and
November 2020, some eight months, before the Landlord served an N7 notice of
termination on the resident and then promptly follow up by filing an
application to terminate later in November 2020.
 
29.  Further, the Landlord
provided no testimony
that he himself contacted police or take any
other action to deal with the
activities in unit no. 2, leaving this for others like the Tenant
or Mme. Mantha to do.
 
30.  In effect, it took eight months before the Landlord
actually took the first serious
step of serving an N7 notice
on the resident in unit no. 2.
 
31.  However, the one year
afterward that it took for the Board to
schedule a hearing to deal with the resident in unit no. 2 is
not something that the Landlord can be blamed for. While the Landlord cannot be blamed for the Board’s
own delay, the real problem
of the resident in unit no. 2 in fact
continued, and the Landlord evidently did not contact police or try anything else (such as
trying to expedite a Board hearing date) to remedy the problems.
 
32.  I cannot guess the Landlord’s rationale for waiting
eight months (between April and November 2020) when he knew he had a serious
issue going on with the resident in unit
no. 2.
 
33.  Therefore, with a finding of substantial interference
made above, I am satisfied that the Tenant is entitled
to a 15% abatement of rent between April 2020 right up to April 1, 2021 when the Tenant vacated the unit (i.e. 12 months), which
totals $1,206.00. It is important to note that the quantum of the
abatement of rent awarded is based
on the evidence that I was able to consider and give weight to.
 
Substantial Interference: on certain dates (TT#2)
 
34.  The Tenant explained
the sensitive work he does for his employer, which he conducts from the rental unit.
 
35.  The Tenant testified as to a number of incidents he
claimed substantially interfered with his reasonable enjoyment. This included submissions about the Landlord
serving him an N4 notice on November 2, 2020 (claiming
covid protocols were not complied with by the Landlord), a claimed illegal
entry by the Landlord on November 17, 2020 when the




 
Landlord and a Fire Marshall appeared
at the rental unit, and incidents involving the Landlord’s son and then the Landlord and his wife on or
about March 27, 2021.
 
36.  The Landlord provided his rebuttal testimony by
submitting responses as to the circumstances
surrounding each of the claimed
interferences. This included
the Landlord knocking loudly
on the rental unit door on November 2, 2020 to serve an N4 notice for arrears,
the involvement of a Fire Marshall who had been called to the building by the
Tenant (i.e. the Tenant said he complained about the propane tank and combustible
materials outside), and the Landlord’s son and spouse assisting the Landlord with various
other property management issues on or about March 27, 2021.
 
37.  Having considered the submissions of both parties, I
am of the view that none of the claimed instances arises to level of
substantial interference. To be
clear, such interferences, even including the claim of the incident of covid
protocols (no 2 metres, masking), do not rise to the level of substantial
interference. As well, the Tenant may
have indeed been bothered or interrupted during his own personal activities,
but I do not find anything substantially interfering. In my view, a landlord must undertake actions to manage his rental property,
including the engagement of people who may assist
him, and certainly in
response to civic authorities who are called forward by the residents of the
rental property itself.
 
Maintenance issues (TT#3)
 
38.  The Tenant testified about five maintenance issues
that he claimed were raised to the attention
of the Landlord in December
2020, but that none of the issues
were resolved up to April 1, 2021 when the Tenant had
vacated the rental unit.
 
39.  The five maintenance issues were a ceiling water
leak, a lack of hot water in the rental unit (hot water tank problem), a
humidity problem in the bathroom, unsafe stairs and common area stairwell and a
problem with snow clearing.
 
40. 
The Tenant testified about the water drops he noticed on the ceiling
over his TV system
area on December 23rd and 24th, 2020, and when he saw the problem
manifest even more, he contacted the Landlord about the problem on December 25th.
 
41.  The issue with the lack of hot water started in
December 2020 when the Tenant noticed the hot water
tank was leaking
in the utility room, but around January
25, 2021 when the
problem still persisted, the Tenant contacted the City for assistance. To be clear, the Tenant did not testify that he had no hot water; the testimony and
submissions show the Tenant experienced a decrease in hot
water, particularly at the kitchen sink (ref: about the 4:59:00 mark of the
hearing).
 
42.  For contextual purposes only, the Tenant stated he had
been experiencing some minor health issues of his own during the hot water
problems. However, it was quite
evident there was no likely causal
connection between the maintenance issues (including the hot
water problem) and the Tenant’s health issues he said he experienced around
that time.




 
43.  The Tenant referred to submissions in TT#2 for the
problems claimed with the bathroom and stairs. During the hearing,
the Tenant provided
a brief summary of the mouldy black stains appearing on the bathroom
ceiling.
 
44.  With regard to
the snow removal problem,
the Tenant testified how the Landlord had tried
to canvass different building residents to take on the responsibility for snow
clearing. He said he was approached on October 10, 2020 by the Landlord
about this job. The Tenant stated his belief that Mme. Mantha
was the one who was contracted to by the Landlord. The Tenant described the challenges with parking because
of the poor snow clearing
and testified he fell once on the ice outside.
 
45.  The Landlord did not dispute
the existence of the maintenance issues, but provided
an explanation of actions taken for each item and reasons for why it
took time to resolve them.
 
46.  The Landlord testified first that the Tenant never
alerted him to any problem with the hot water tank, or the lack of hot water in
the rental unit. He said the old hot
water tank had been replaced with a new hot water tank in June 2020. He said that someone (unknown who) had
apparently set the hot water tank to a “high” setting (instead of “medium”
where it was supposed to be), which cause the valve pressure to increase, thus
causing a leak. The Landlord confirmed the hot water
tank was repaired,
which happened sometime
after the City by-law officer had become involved (no date given). In any event, once the hot water tank was repaired, the Landlord and Tenant both testified the Landlord changed
the lock to the utility room in late March 2021.
 
47.  With regard to the ceiling leak, the Landlord
confirmed that due to the relationship problems with the Tenant, he told the
Tenant to only contact him by email. (I
note that the parties disagreed on
the meaning of the French words “courriel” and “courier”, which they used in
their exchanges.) The Landlord stated
he did go to see the ceiling issue on December 24, 2020, but he did not believe
it was a pipe leak from apt. 1 and that the problem was not an issue after the
Tenant vacated the unit. In reply
submissions, the Tenant challenged the Landlord’s testimony by saying the
Landlord never inspected the rental unit between
the one time in December
2020 and April 2021, so how could he state the leak only appeared the one time.
 
48.  The Landlord testified
there was no maintenance issue with the bathroom, except
that humidity could have collected through normal use, thus causing some
blackening as claimed by the Tenant.
 
49.  The Landlord confirmed that he did contract snow
clearing to Mme. Mantha, but only for the sidewalk. The Landlord stated he had contracted a company called JR
Removal for all the driveway snow removal requirements. He stated that he did not have any complaints from anyone about the level of snow clearing until the Tenant raised this issue
under the section 82 claims.
 
50.  Based on the evidence submitted and testimonies given,
I am persuaded partially by the
case the Tenant made. On a balance of
probabilities, I find the Landlord failed to meet




 
the Landlord’s obligations under
subsection 20(1) of the Act to repair
and/or maintain the rental
unit for certain issues.
 
51.  I believe the maintenance issue related to the lack of hot water (due to a problem with the
hot water tank) is the only claim that succeeds under the section 82 claims in
TT#3. In my view, the other claims
did not meet the balance of probabilities test, to establish the Landlord
breached his obligations.
 
52.  The lack of hot water was not a disputed maintenance
problem and it did persist from early December 2020 to approximately late March 2021. This represents four months of compromised, lessened access to hot
water.
 
53.  Accordingly, I believe
the Tenant is entitled to a small rent abatement.
 
54.  Subsection 20(1) of the Act does not contain an
element of fault. In other words, the
reasons for a landlord’s breach of subsection 20(1) are not relevant. Regardless of the reasons why a landlord
is unable to provide a rental unit in a good state of repair and fit for habitation, if they are unable to do so, they are in breach
of their obligation under the Act.
 
55.  However, a landlord’s strict contractual liability for
maintenance breaches without the element of fault has been balanced by the
recent 2016 case in Onyskiw v. CJM Property Management 2016 ONCA 477
(CanLII) (“Onyskiw”).            In
Onyskiw, the Court of Appeal
for Ontario rejected the position that a landlord is automatically in
breach of its obligation to maintain and repair under subsection 20(1) as soon
as an interruption in service occurs or the unit is in need of repair. The
Court addressed the competing approaches taken to section 20 maintenance
applications and preferred the contextual approach. By looking at the “big picture” (the contextual approach), the
Appeal Court found that the reasonableness of a landlord’s response and conduct
to the maintenance issue(s) is a factor in deciding breach and/or remedy and
that this is consistent with Interpretation Guideline No. 5.    This Appeal
Court decision is the guiding legal authority here.
 
56.  The contextual approach
is the approach I used for analyzing
the submissions of the
parties this case.
 
57.  Further, a rent abatement under
a Tenant Application About Maintenance Form T6 is intended to reflect the fact that a
tenant did not get full value for the rent paid. The abatement should represent
an appropriate diminution in the value of the tenancy.
 
58.  In determining how much of rent abatement
to award the Tenant,
I have considered two
factors in particular, that is, duration and impact.
 
59.  It is evident
that the Tenants
were affected by the
compromised access to hot water, at
different times, over the aforementioned four-month period.
 
60.  As for impact,
I am left to consider
what an inconsistent access, or reduced access,
to hot water has in the way of
daily impact to the Tenant.




 
61.  Consequently, I believe
that an abatement of 5% for the four-month period of December 2020 to April 1, 2021. That represents an abatement of $134.00.
 
Harassment claims
(TT#4)
 
62.  The Tenant testified that the Landlord sent
inappropriate and intimidating messages to the
Tenant, which led the Tenant to vacate the rental
unit. The Tenant focused primarily on text message exchanges on or
around March 24, 2021, which include exchanges between the Landlord’s son
(Jonathan) and the Tenant.
 
63.  The Tenant’s testimony also touched upon prior exchanges
as well (ref: about the 5:39:32 mark of the hearing).
 
64.  The Landlord provided
rebuttal testimony, submitting it was the Tenant who was rude and
made disrespectful remarks to the Landlord.
 
65.  The Tenant admitted
a number of times that at times that he said things
to, and admonished the
Landlord (as well as the Landlord’s son) that were not good.
 
66.   I took in a good amount of anecdotal accounts
of who said what to whom, and considered those accounts as a whole.
 
67.  Based on the totality of the parties’ submissions, I
was not sufficiently persuaded on a balance
of probabilities that there was any harassment or even coercion
by the Landlord against the Tenant.
 
68.  In my view, what started
off as a good landlord-tenant relationship at the beginning of the
tenancy deteriorated over the tenancy.
 
69.  While the Tenant stated the Landlord harassed
or coerced him, it was evident from the
parties’ submissions that the Tenant had shown the same regard to the Landlord.
 
70.  As such, I find that both parties
must share equal responsibility for the deteriorated state of their relationship, and I am unable to find that
either party harassed or coerced the other.
 
71.  I made the foregoing determinations orally during the hearing, stating
that this particular claim
under TT#4 was most probably to be denied.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     On or before February 11, 2022, the Landlord shall
provide the Tenant with proper rent receipts,
setting out each and every
rent amount received
by the Landlord over the entire tenancy.
 
2.     The tenancy between
the Landlord and the Tenant
is terminated as of April 1, 2021 when the Tenant gave vacant possession of
the rental unit back to the Landlord.




 
3.    
The Tenant shall pay to the
Landlord $596.38*, which represents the amount of rent owing and compensation
up to April 1, 2021, less the rent deposit and interest the Landlord owes on the rent deposit
and less the amount of the
abatement of rent (for the
two successful section 82 claims) the Landlord owes the Tenant.
 
4.    
The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
5.     If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord the full amount
owing* on or before
February 28, 2022, the Tenant will
start to owe interest. This will be
simple interest calculated from March 1, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
 
 
 
February 1, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Alex Brkic
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
Eastern-RO
255 Albert Street, 4th Floor
Ottawa ON K1P6A9
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
*           Refer to section
A on the attached Summary
of Calculations..




Schedule 1 SUMMARY
OF CALCULATIONS
 
File Number: EAL-93146-20
 
A.        Amount the Tenant must pay
as the tenancy is
terminated:
 



Reasons for amount
owing


Period


Amount




Arrears: (up to the
termination date in the
  Notice of Termination)


December 1, 2020 to
December 17, 2020


$374.47



 



Less the amount
the Tenant paid to the
  Landlord


 


-$40.00




Plus compensation: (from the
  day
after the termination date in the Notice to the
  date of the order)


December 18,
2020 to April
1, 2021


$2,313.15




Less the rent
  deposit:


 


-$650.00




Less the interest owing on the rent deposit:


December 1, 2015 to
December 17, 2020


-$61.24



 



Less amount owing to the Tenant for
abatement/rebate ($1,206.00 + $134.00):


 


-$1,340.00



 



Amount owing to the Landlord on the order
date:(total of previous
  boxes)


$596.38



 



Additional costs the Tenant must pay to the Landlord:


$186.00



 



Total the Tenant
must pay the Landlord as the tenancy is terminated:


$782.38



 

