Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-01
File number:	
EAL-92743-20

Citation:	Minto Multi-res Inc v Mitchell, 2022 CanLII 86383 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js1dm>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: EAL-92743-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


204, 1800 BASELINE ROAD OTTAWA ON K2C3N1


 




Between:


Minto Multi-res Income Prtnrs 1, Gp Inc


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Cassandra Mitchell
  Mitchell Wright


Tenants



 
 
 
Minto Multi-res Income Prtnrs 1,
Gp Inc (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Mitchell
Wright and Cassandra
Mitchell (the 'Tenants') because they, another occupant of the rental
unit or someone they permitted in the residential complex have wilfully
or negligently caused undue damage to
the premises. The Landlord has also
applied for an order requiring the Tenants to compensate the Landlord for the
damage; and because they, another occupant of the rental unit or someone they
permitted in the residential complex have substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment or lawful
right, privilege or interest of the
Landlord or another tenant. The
Landlord also claimed compensation for each
day the Tenants remained in the unit
after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by video conference on November 10,
2021.
 
At 10:31
am, the Landlord’s agent James Butcher
(JB) and the Landlord’s Representative Anne Skelly (AS) attended the hearing.
 
Preliminary issue:
 
On the date of the hearing, I was
advised that the Tenant’s informed the Landlord that they vacated the rental unit on
November 3, 2021. The Landlord
is seeking on order for termination of tenancy as the Tenants have not returned the keys to the rental
unit.
 
 
Determinations
and Reasons:
 
1.     The rental unit is a 3-bedroom apartment in a multi-unit complex.
 
2.     The Landlord’s application was preceded by a single N5
notice of termination (“N5 Notice”) deemed served
on November 24, 2020. The N5 Notice set out two reasons
for ending the tenancy: 1) the Tenant’s behaviour or the behaviour of
someone visiting or




 
living with the Tenant has
substantially interfered with another tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex, and/or lawful
rights, privileges, or interests; and 2)
the Tenant or someone visiting or living with the Tenant has wilfully or negligently
damaged the rental unit or the residential complex.
 
 
N5 Notice - Substantial interference
 
3.    
I am satisfied that the conduct of
the Tenants has substantially interfered with the Landlord’s and another tenant’s
reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex for the reasons that follow.
 
4.     Uncontested evidence revealed that between February 21,
2020 and October 25, 2021, the Tenants were served with 27
notices of entry pertaining to an ongoing pest control issues; specifically bed bugs and cockroaches. It was the testimony and evidence of JB
that the Tenants refused to prepare the unit for treatment resulting in the
persistent infestation. The Landlord
provided instructions and support to the Tenants with respect to the
preparation requirements.
 
5.     It was the testimony and evidence of JB that in the last year, 9 treatments had been scheduled to
the rental unit and the Tenants refused entry.
Copies of the correspondence and notices were admitted into evidence.
 
6.     JB presented evidence revealing that the Tenants
repeatedly refused to cooperate with the pre-treatment preparations and did not allow the Landlord’s specialists to perform the necessary work.
 
7.     Further testimony was provided by JB that, as a result of the lack of co-operation from the Tenants and
denied access to the rental unit, other tenants in neighbouring units have
infestations. The Landlord has
provided treatment but the fact that the Tenant’s rental unit remains
untouched, those efforts are having little to no lasting impact.
 
8.     It is the opinion of the JB that the rental unit is the “root cause”
and control needs to be done in that unit to stop the
infestation and spread. It was the
evidence of JB that the state of the Tenant’s unit presents health and safety concerns for other tenants and
creates potential for widespread pest infestations.
 
9.     By not preparing the unit, specifically following the
Landlord’s instructions to ensure successful and complete treatments, the
Tenant are substantially interfering with the Landlord’s ability to comply
with their responsibilities under section 20 and conduct
pest control treatments. This behaviour also interferes with the
Landlord’s lawful rights, interests and privileges as it puts them in an
adverse position with other tenants and increases the Landlord’s liability. The evidence here was that a lack of proper
treatment in the Tenant’s unit contributed to the infestation in other
rental units in the residential complex.




 
N5 Notice
- Wilful or Negligent Damage
 
10. 
In order
for an application for compensation for damages made pursuant to subsection
89(1) of the Act to succeed, a landlord must establish the following:
a) 
There was property damage
to the rental unit or residential complex;
b)  The
damage is “undue”
meaning that it is not normal wear and tear and it is not insignificant; and
c) 
The damage
was a result of wilful
or negligent conduct
by the Tenant, occupant or
guest.
 
11. 
In this context, I take the word “property” to refer to the physical
objects like the walls,
ceilings, floors, appliances and fixtures in a residential complex.
 
12. 
If
all of these factors are met, then the Board can award the Landlord’s the reasonable cost of
repair, or the replacement cost if it is not reasonable for the damage to be repaired.
 
13.  With respect to the Landlord’s claim for $150.00 for
the cost of pest control treatment incurred by the Landlord due to the Tenants
not preparing the unit nor allowing access, I find that this claim does not met
the requirement as outlined in paragraphs 10 and 11. More specifically, the claim in not covered under s.89(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006.
(the ‘Act’) as it does not constitute property damage. The Landlord’s claim for this item is dismissed.
 
 
N5 Notice
– Voiding Period
 
 
14.  Subsection 64(3) of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 (the “Act”) states that a tenant can void an N5 Notice by stopping
the activities or correcting the described behaviour within seven
days of being served with notice. In this case, the seven-day voiding period begins
on November 14, 2020 and ends on November 20, 2020.
 
15.  On November 12, 2020, the Landlord provided
the Tenants with a notice
of entry for pest
control treatment scheduled for
November 20, 2020. It was the uncontested testimony of JB that the Tenants
had not prepared the unit for pest control treatment as per the direction
provided to the Tenants. Accordingly,
I find that the Tenants did not void this portion of the N5 notice and that the
rental unit remains a health concern for the other tenants, including the
Tenants.
 
16.  I find on a balance of probabilities that the Tenants
have substantially interfered with the Landlord’s and another tenant’s
reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex and the refusal to prepare the unit for pest
control resulted extensive infestation and a financial loss for the Landlord.




 
17.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of
the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find
that it would be unfair to grant
relief from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the Act.
 
18.  This
order contains all of the reasons for the decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The tenancy between
the Landlord and the Tenants
is terminated, as of February
28
,2022. The Tenants
must move out of the rental unit on or before February
28, 2022.
 
2.     The Tenants shall pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost to file the application.
 
3.     The Tenants shall pay to the Landlord $52.42 per day
for compensation (less any amounts already paid to the Landlord)
for the use of the unit from December 4, 2021 to the date the Tenants move out of the
unit.
 
4.     The total amount
the Tenants shall pay to the Landlord
is $186.00.
 
5.     If the Tenants do not pay the Landlord the full amount
owing on or before February 28, 2022, they will start to owe interest.
This will be simple interest
calculated from March 1, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
6.     If the unit is not vacated on or before February 28, 2022, then starting
March 1, 2022, the Landlord may
file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the
eviction may be enforced.
 
7.    
Upon receipt
of this order, the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after March 1, 2022.
 












February 1, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Dana Wren
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Eastern-RO
255 Albert Street, 4th Floor
Ottawa ON K1P6A9
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section
81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction
expires on September 1, 2022
if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental
unit is located.




 

