Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-08
File number:	
EAL-97456-21

Citation:	Duong v Morisseau, 2022 CanLII 87937 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js3nt>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
File Number: EAL-97456-21
 



In the matter
of:


A, 199
RUSSELL AVENUE OTTAWA ON
  K1N7X3


 




Between:


Peter Duong


Landlord




 


and


 




 


Kenol Morisseau


Tenant



 
Peter Duong (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Kenol Morisseau (the 'Tenant') because
a)    
the Tenant, another occupant
of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential
complex has caused serious problems in the rental unit
b)    
the Tenant, another occupant of
the rental unit used the rental unit or the residential complex in a manner
that is inconsistent with use as a residential premises and that has
caused or can be expected to cause significant damage.
c)     
the Tenant, another occupant
of the rental unit or a person
the Tenant permitted in the residential
complex has seriously impaired the safety of any person
The Landlord has also applied for
an order requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlord for the damage
and compensation for each day the Tenant remained
in the unit after the termination
date.
This application was heard via
video/teleconference on November
10, 2021.
Only the Landlord attended the
hearing. As of 10:35 a.m., the Tenant
was not present or represented at the hearing although
properly served with notice of this hearing
by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The residential complex
is a house that the Landlord rents out rooms to multiple
Tenants. The Landlord does not live in the residential complex or
share facilities with the Tenant.
 
2.    
On August 20, 2021 the Landlord
gave the Tenant an (N7) form notice
to end the tenancy setting
out a termination date of August 31, 2021.
 
3.     The Tenant did not move out of the
rental unit pursuant to the notice given.
 
4.    
Section 66 of the Residential Tenancies
Act provides:
(1) A landlord may give a tenant
notice of termination of the tenancy if, (a) an act or omission of the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or
a person permitted
in the residential complex by the tenant seriously impairs or has seriously impaired the safety of any person;
and (b) the act or omission
occurs in the residential complex.




 
 
5.    
Section 66 is intended
to be used only where the misconduct is serious in nature. The Act
specifically uses the adjective “seriously” for a reason as it refers to the
nature of impairment of safety. The use of that word means the provision is not
intended to cover any potential, contingent, or theoretical risk of harm.
 
6.    
Section 66 entails a short (10 day) notice
provision; no opportunity is provided to void the notice; and, if eviction is ordered,
the Sheriff must be requested to expedite it.
 
7.     The pleadings set out in the N7 Notice alleges that
the Tenant has frequent guests coming and going to the residential complex
at all hours of the day
to ‘do business’ that
interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex by other
Tenants.
 
8.    
An application to end the Tenant
based on a Tenant
interfering with the reasonable
enjoyment by other Tenants is based on a N5 notice to end the tenancy, not the N7 notice given in this instance.
 
9.    
Since this is the Landlord’s application, the Landlord bears
the burden of proving the allegations on a balance of
probabilities.
 
10. 
The standard
of proof requires
that evidence “must
always be sufficiently clear, convincing and cogent to satisfy the balance of
probabilities test.”
 
11. 
On any application, but especially on an application like this, a landlord cannot
simply make general allegations against a tenant and expect termination
of the tenancy to follow. A termination of a tenancy must always be a remedy of
last resort.
 
12.  In my view,
and based on the totality
of the documentation presented, all the necessary elements of the alleged offence
have not been made out in this case.
 
13.  Despite that the Landlord’s testimony of events was uncontested, to me it was not sufficiently clear, convincing and cogent to satisfy the balance of probabilities test.
 
14.  All in all, I was not satisfied
the Landlord’s evidence
is insufficient to rise to the level necessary to meet the Landlords’ burden
of proof based on a N7 notice to end the tenancy.
 
15.  Therefore, the Landlord
failed to prove
on a balance of probabilities that the Tenant
has seriously impaired the safety of any person.
 
16.  The Landlord’s application to end the tenancy and evict the Tenant is to be
dismissed.
 
17.  This order contains
all the reason for the decision within
the order. No other reasons
will be issued.




 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord's application is dismissed.












February 8, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Randy Aulbrook
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
Eastern-RO
255 Albert Street, 4th Floor
Ottawa ON K1P6A9
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

