Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-04
File number:	
EAT-90365-20

Citation:	Lise v Clv Group Inc, 2022 CanLII 49901 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpqhs>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
 
 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: EAT-90365-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


MANY, 207 BELL STREET
NORTH OTTAWA ON K1R0B9


 




 
 
Between:


 
 
Refer to attached Schedule 2


 
 
Tenants




 


And


 




 


Clv Group Inc


Landlord



 
 
 
The Tenants applied
for an order determining that the
Clv Group Inc (the Landlord)
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their
household.
 
This application was heard by videoconference
on November 10, 2021.
 
The following
Tenants attended the hearing: Hannah
Alsdurf; Ravneet Minhas; Jean-Philippe Lallemand; Jimmy Bourque; Chelsey
Stuart-Duval; Sherry Bhan;
and; Max Su. The Landlord’s legal representative, Daniel
Abraham, also attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
At the hearing the
parties mutually requested that the application be amended to change the address
of the unit to replace
“South” with “North”. The parties also requested that the
application be amended to remove Mike Macgahan as a landlord because he is a
chief executive officer of the Landlord, only. I granted both requests.
 
2.    
In this T2 application
the Tenants state that since March 13, 2020 the Landlord has discontinued the following
services or facilities in response to public health and safety circumstances related
to the COVID-19 pandemic: the rooftop terrace;
the fitness center; the yoga/spin room; the clubhouse,
the pet spa, the business center and’ the theater room. The Tenants state that
the Landlord has also reduced the concierge hours for the same reason.




 
3.    
As a preliminary issue,
Mr. Abraham submitted that the
Tenants are not permitted to advance their claims by way of a
T2 application and that these claims
can only properly be advanced through a T3
application
 
4.    
In response the Tenants
testified that they deliberately chose to use a T2 application because their
desired remedy, a rent abatement, is available
though a T2 application and
not through to a T3 application. From this testimony it is clear
that the Tenants intend that the issues in the application be
considered under sections 29 and 31 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
Act) which provisions relate to claims that a landlord has substantial
interfered with a tenant’s reasonable enjoyment. It is also clear that the
Tenants do not intend that these issues be considered under section 130, which
relates to claims that a landlord has discontinued or reduced a service of
facility.
 
5.    
Section 2 of the Act
states in part “services and facilities” includes common recreation
facilitates. From the pleadings, it is reasonable to characterize most of the services and facilities at issue in the
application as common recreation facilities.
 
6.     Section 130 of the Act states:
 
130 (1) A tenant of a rental
unit may apply to the Board for an order for a reduction of the rent charged
for the rental unit due to a reduction
or discontinuance in services or facilities provided in respect of the rental unit or the
residential complex.
Same, former
tenant
(2)   
A former tenant of a rental unit may apply under this section as a tenant
of the rental unit if the person was affected by the discontinuance or
reduction of the services or facilities while the person was a tenant of the
rental unit.
Order re lawful rent
(3)    The Board shall make findings in accordance with the
prescribed rules and may order,
(a)                
that the rent charged
be reduced by a specified
amount;
(b)               
that there be a rebate to the tenant of any rent found to have been unlawfully collected by the landlord;
(c)                
that the rent charged be reduced by a
specified amount for a specified period if there has been a temporary reduction
in a service.
Same
(4)    An order under this section reducing
rent takes effect on the day that the discontinuance or reduction first
occurred.
Same, time limitation
(5)   
No application may be made under this section more than one year after a reduction or discontinuance in a
service or facility.
 
7.    
Section 130 of the Act
contemplates that a landlord may unilaterally reduce or discontinue a service
or facility to which
a tenant is entitled under the
tenancy agreement. If this
happens a tenant may file an application in the form approved by the Board to
request a rent reduction. That applicable application in the present case is a
T3 application.
 
8.    
The amount of the rent
reduction that a tenant may be entitled to is determined in accordance with the prescribed rules that are set out in section
39 of Ontario Regulation
516/06 (the ‘Regulation’) made under the Act.




 
9.    
The Regulation sets out different
rules for determining an appropriate rent reduction
depending on whether a landlord’s removal or discontinuance of a service was
reasonable or unreasonable.
 
10.  Therefore, whether a landlord’s removal
of a service was reasonable or unreasonable, a
tenant’s remedy is a rent reduction which is determined in accordance with the prescribed rules.
 
11.  In my view it is not appropriate for a claim for reduction or discontinuance in a service
or facility to be considered under sections 29 and 31 of the Act so as
to allow a tenant to circumvent the Act, for example, by requesting a different
remedy than what is provided for under the section 130 of the Act.
 
12.  As articulated by Vice Chair Karen Wallace
in Order CET-68554-17-RV, which was issued on October
26, 2021, substantial interference with reasonable enjoyment is a very broad and general framing and could
possibly include a great range of concerns that could arise during a tenancy. However,
when an issue
raised in an application falls under
a more specific and applicable section of the Act, the issue should be
determined under that specific and applicable section.
 
13. 
This perspective was re-enforced by Member
Kevin Lundy in Order SWT-73750-15 / SWL-99291-17, which was issued on June 8, 2018. Paragraph 96
provides:
 
To allow
parties to pursue duplicate claims based upon the broad wording of “substantial
interference” stripped away from its
specific intended application under the Act would improperly dilute the meaning
of this term. If a tenant is permitted to seek parallel
remedies through a T2 Application with respect to purely maintenance concerns, a landlord could
likewise argue that a tenant’s failure to pay the monthly rent substantially
interferes with his or her lawful rights under section 64 of the Act to obtain
a remedy not properly available under the actual cause of action. This would run contrary to logical
statutory interpretation and lead to an unjust result.
 
14.  The facts of the present case do not show a sufficient basis to deviate
from the reasoning in the
above cases. The issues in the application are properly advanced pursuant to
section 130 of the Act, not sections 29 and 31 of the Act. As such, I
determined that the appropriate outcome is to dismiss the application.
 
It is ordered that:
 
The application is dismissed without
consideration of its merits
 
 












January 4, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Sean Henry
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
Eastern-RO
255 Albert Street, 4th Floor
Ottawa ON K1P6A9
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.




 
Schedule
2
 
File Number: EAT-90365-20
 



Artman,
Lise


Bhan,
  Sherry




Bourque, Jimmy


Carroll, Belinda




Chiu, Hedva


Cohen, Jessica




Health, Melissa


Jerome, Graham




Lallemand, Jean-philippe


Mcguirk, Shawn




Mekhaiel, Cristina


Minhas, Ravneet




O'neil, Megan


Stuart-duval, Chelsey




Su, Max


Timmons, Megan




Warren,
Micheal


Alsdurf,
Hannah



 

