Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-22
File number:	
EAT-91680-20

Citation:	John v Cavanagh, 2022 CanLII 127310 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jv072>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: EAT-91680-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


9
CHISHOLM COURT KANATA ON
  K2K1E1


 




Between:


Karen John Paul Joseph


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Brian Cavanagh


Landlord



 
 
 
Karen John and Paul Joseph (the
'Tenants') applied for an order determining that Brian Cavanagh (the 'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with them and entered the rental unit illegally.
 
This application was heard by video
conference on November
24, 2021.
 
At 1:11 pm, Paul Joseph, Melanie
Texeira the Landlord’s Representative and the Landlord attended the hearing.
 
 
Determinations and Reasons:
 
1.     The rental unit is a 3-bedroom townhouse and the Tenants
occupied the entire
rental unit.
 
2.     The Tenant’s T2 application was filed September 12,
2020 and alleges that the Landlord’s real estate
agent entered the unit illegally and that the Landlord
and/or Landlord’s agent harassed, coerced, obstructed, threatened or interfered with the Tenants.
 
3.    
The Tenants are
seeking remedies by way of rent
abatement, cease showings and the Landlord to stop actions aimed
to intimidate. The Tenants
are also seeking
a Board fine
 
Illegal entry and Harassment
 
4.     The allegations of illegal entry and harassment relate to the same issues.
 
5.     The Tenant testified that when learning of the
Landlord’s plans to sell the rental unit, the Tenant advised the Landlord
that he and his family
could only accommodate showings of the property during restricted times
on Saturdays. The Tenant claimed
covid and health




 
risks as reason for the restrictions. No evidence was provided to support the allegation of health risks.
 
6.    
The Tenant testified that the Landlord’s real estate agent illegally entered
the unit. He said the entries occurred on August 18,
2020, September 1, 2020 and September 4,
2020.
 
7.     It was the testimony of the Tenant that no notices of
entry were provided to the Tenant and that the agent accessed
the key to the rental
unit via the lockbox and entered the unit
without providing proper notice to the Tenants.
 
8.    
The Tenant
submitted as evidence confirmation of showings from the realtor,
photos of the for sale sign
and the lock on the door and email correspondence.
 
9.    
The Tenant submitted a photo of the lock box and email chain pertaining to the alleged
incident on August 18, 2020. Although the Tenant was not pleased that a for sale sign was placed on the lawn and
a lockbox attached to the door, there was no evidence submitted to support the
allegation of illegal entry.
 
10. 
As for the two other dates
alleging illegal entry,
I was more persuaded by the Landlord’s testimony and evidence that
notices of entry were provided to the Tenants.
 
11.  The Tenant also claimed that showings were booked
outside of the agreed upon times that were restricted to Saturdays and that the times booked were inconvenient for himself and his
family.
 
12.  It was the testimony
and evidence of the Landlord
that the Tenants were properly served with notices
of entry and that the Tenants were also notified
by way of the agent’s activity listing report. The Landlord provided evidence by way of
showing activity reports, email and text message communication.
 
13.  The Landlord also testified that he did not consent to
the Tenant’s request for restricted showings but did try to accommodate the
request for restrictive showing schedule. The Landlord said that he
accommodated the Tenant’s request and therefor only offered limited weekend
showings and within the restrictive timelines as per the Tenant’s
request. He further testified that these restrictions caused significant
delay in the sale of the property.
 
Analysis and Law
 
14.  The standard of proof
in proceedings before
this Board is “proof on a
balance
of probabilities.” By that standard, the party bearing the
burden of proof must show with evidence that, “more
likely than not”,
their assertions are true. Where the evidence
of the opposing party is as believable
as that of the party bearing the
burden of proof, that burden cannot be said to have been discharged.
 
15.  Section 27 of the Act states:




 
“(1) A landlord may enter a rental unit in accordance withwritten notice given to the tenant at least 24 hours before the
time of entry for any reasonable reason.
 
16. 
Subsection 27(2) and (3) of the Act allows
a landlord or a registered real estate broker or agent to enter a rental unit to allow a
potential purchaser to view the rental unit,
provided that 24 hours’ written
notice has been provided for entry between the hours of 8
a.m. and 8
p.m.
 
17.  The Board’s Interpretation Guideline 19 deals
with a landlord’s right of entry and states:
 
A tenant does not have the right to deny entry simply
because the time of entry is not convenient to the tenant. The tenant
must:
 
i. 
not interfere with the landlord's right of entry;
ii. 
not interfere with the landlord and its agents;
 
18.  No evidence adduced
by the Tenant either in part or taken in its entirety
suffices to meet the burden of proof upon the Tenant to demonstrate that the Landlord has breached his obligations as they pertain to the T2 application.
 
19.  Based on the testimony and evidence provided, I was
not persuaded with enough information to support
the allegations that gave rise to the T2 application. As such, the Tenant is not entitled to a remedy
for this application.
 
20. 
On the matter of illegal entry,
I find that the Tenant did not establish on a balance
of probabilities that the Landlord’s real estate agent entered the unit
illegally.
 
21. 
Based on the testimony
and evidence before
me, I also find that the Tenant
did not establish on a balance
of probabilities, that the Landlord or the Landlord's
agent harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the Tenants.
 
22. 
The order contains all of the reasons for the decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The application is
dismissed.
 
 
 
February
22, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Dana Wren
Member, Landlord and Tenant
Board
 
Eastern-RO




 
255 Albert Street, 4th Floor
Ottawa ON K1P6A9
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

