Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-25
File number:	
EAT-91827-20

Citation:	Boxe v Pathak, 2022 CanLII 79008 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrq2l>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
57
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: EAT-91827-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


107 CASTLE OAKS CROSSING BRAMPTON ON L6P3V2


 




Between:


Tanya Boxe Royell Boxe


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Naynaben Pathak


Landlord



 
 
Tanya Boxe (TB) and Royell Boxe (the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that Naynaben Pathak
(NP) (the 'Landlord'), gave a notice of termination in bad faith (T5
application).
 
This application was heard by video
conference on November 3, 2021.
 
At 11:47 am, TB, the
Landlord and the Landlord’s Daughter
Dhara Pathak (DP) attended the hearing.
 
DP attended the hearing
to provide technical
support to her
Mother.
 
Preliminary Matters:
 
On the date of the hearing, it
was the Landlord’s position that the Tenant’s
T5 application did not meet the requirement of the Act as it was filed after the 12-month limitation period. I explained to the parties that due to the emergency
orders resulting from the pandemic, limitations periods were suspended from
March 16, 2020 to September 13, 2020. As
a result, the Tenant’s application was properly before the Board.
 
On the date of the hearing,
I also requested that Nikhil
Pathak (NP) the son of the Landlord
and an occupant of the residential complex call in to provide testimony. The Landlord arranged for NP to call into
the hearing. I stood the matter down at 1:38 pm.
 
 
Determinations
and Reasons:
 
1.     The rental unit is a single-family home.




 
2.    
The tenancy
began in or about April 2016. The Tenants
vacated the rental unit August
31, 2019.
 
3.     This application is brought pursuant
to s. 57(1)(a) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the 'Act') which states:
 
57 (1) The Board
may make an order described in subsection (3) if, on application by a former
tenant of a rental unit, the Board determines that,
 
(a)the landlord gave a notice of
termination under section 48 in bad faith, the former tenant vacated the rental unit as a result of the notice or as a
result of an application to or order made by the Board based on the
notice, and no person referred to in clause 48 (1) (a), (b), (c) or (d)
occupied the rental unit within a reasonable time after the former tenant
vacated the rental unit;
 
4.    
What this provision means is that in order to succeed
on this application the Tenants must lead sufficient evidence to
establish it is more likely than not that:
 
(1)    
The Tenants got a notice of termination under s. 48;
(2)    
The Tenants moved out of
the rental unit as
a result of the Landlord’s notice;
(3)     The
notice was given in bad faith meaning
the Landlord had no intention of moving into the rental unit; and
(4)     The
Landlord’s son did not in fact move into the rental unit within a reasonable
time after the Tenants vacated.
 
5.     There is no dispute between
the parties about
the first two elements of this test.
 
6.    
The central factual dispute
between them is the allegation that
the Landlord’s son did not move into the rental
unit within a reasonable period
of time after the Tenants
vacated. TB says the property
was re-rented to a new family of tenants within a short time after she moved
out. TB alleges that the son never moved into the rental unit.
 
 
Testimony and Evidence
 
7.    
TB testified that she was served
an N12 notice on or about June 19, 2019 alleging that the
Landlord’s son required the property for personal use. The Landlord
did not include an affidavit nor declaration from the son stating his intention to move into the rental
unit for a period of at least 1 year.
 
8.     It was not disputed that the Tenants
moved out as a result
of receiving the N12 notice.
 
9.     TB claimed that a single
person did not require a 4-bedroom house.
 
10. 
TB testified
that she passed the rental
unit on a regular basis and saw several Jetta’s parked in the driveway, various people coming and going but not the Landlord’s son.




 
11.  TB testified that in or about July 2020, renovations were underway at the rental unit.
 
12.  It was the testimony and evidence of TB that on or about August 11, 2020 she
saw an ad for rental of the basement unit at the residential complex.
Supporting evidence was submitted.
 
13.  It was not disputed that the Landlord owns the entire
house and that the basement was renovated to accommodate a separate rental
unit. The Landlord
testified that her son
and daughter live in the upper unit and the basement is a separate rental unit
at $1700.00.
 
14. 
I would observe at this point that the reverse onus provision in subsection 57(5) of the Act
applies to this situation. This provision states:
 
(5) For the purposes of an
application under clause (1) (a), it is presumed, unless the contrary is proven on a
balance of probabilities, that a landlord gave a notice of termination under
section 48 in bad faith, if at any time during the period described in
subsection (6) the landlord,
 
…
 
(b) enters into a tenancy agreement
in respect of the rental
unit with someone other than the former tenant;
 
15.  This provision means
that, because there
is evidence before
me that, during
the one year period after the Tenant moved out of
the rental unit, the Landlord’s intention was to subdivide the residential
complex and enter into a tenancy agreement with another tenant, the Landlord
bears the burden of proof to establish that she did not serve the notice of
termination in bad faith. For the following reasons, I find that the Landlord
has not met this burden.
 
16.  Although the Landlord
says her son and daughter
actually currently live in the rental unit, her testimony was that an entire
separate unit was created during the renovations to accommodate new rental
income property. In the Landlord’s
disclosure package, documents were submitted including the contract for
basement renovations and the occupancy permit.
 
17.  On the matter of testimony by the son regarding his
residency at the rental unit, the Landlord failed to provide the Tenant with an affidavit
or declaration at the time the N12 notice was served upon the Tenant. The
Landlord did not provide any supporting documentation from her son.
 
18.  I asked the son to join the hearing and to provide
testimony. He confirmed that
renovations of the rental unit had delayed
his tenancy. He moved into the rental unit in or around the beginning of December 2019
and occupies the main floor unit. The son confirmed that he does not occupy the
basement unit.
 
19. 
Based on the evidence
before me, and in light of the reverse onus that applies,
I find that the Landlord served the notice of termination in bad
faith.




 
20.  The Landlord served the Tenants a notice of
termination under s.48 of the Act on the basis
that the Landlord’s child genuinely intended
to move into the rental
unit. As a result
of the notice, the Tenants vacated.
 
21.  The Landlord undertook to subdivide the rental complex
into two rental unit. The Landlord’s son moved into one of the new rental units
and the Landlord rented out the
second unit. The evidence before me
suggests on a balance of probabilities that Landlord served the N12 notice to
the Tenants as a means of obtaining more income from the rental unit by
converting the residential complex into two units.
 
22. 
For all of these reasons, I find that the Landlord
served the notice of termination in bad faith and the
Tenant’s application must be granted.
 
The Remedies
 
23.  The next issue before me is the quantum
of remedies to award the Tenant. The remedies
the Tenant is requesting in the application are: administrative fine, rent differential for one year and out of pocket expenses for moving and storage
and punitive damages in the amount of $5000.00.
 
Administrative Fine:
 
24. 
The Tenants
are requesting that the Landlord
be ordered to pay an administrative fine. Pursuant to the Board’s
Interpretation Guideline 16:
 
An administrative fine is a
remedy to be used by the Board to encourage compliance with the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the "RTA"), and to deter landlords from
engaging in similar activity in the future. This remedy is not normally
imposed unless a landlord has shown a blatant disregard for the RTA and other
remedies will not provide adequate deterrence and compliance. Administrative
fines and rent abatements serve different purposes. Unlike a fine, a rent abatement is intended to compensate a tenant
for a contravention of a tenant's rights or a breach of the landlord's obligations.
 
25. 
I find that this is an appropriate case for an administrative fine for deterrence and I say this for the following reasons.
 
26.  As previously stated,
it was not disputed that the Landlord
subdivided the rental
complex to create two distinct rental
units. I find that an administrative fine is required to deter the Landlord from
serving notices of termination in bad faith on her other tenants. Given
the Landlord’s behaviour towards the Tenants, I don not believe the additional
remedies awarded will be sufficient deterrence.
 
27.   Regarding the quantum of the fine,
the Board’s Interpretation Guideline says: In
setting the amount of the fine, the Member may consider:




 
•       
the nature and severity
of the breach
•       
the effect of the breach on the tenant
•       
any other relevant factors.
 
The amount of the fine should
be commensurate with the breach.
 
28.  Here, the impact on the Tenants was considerable
because they endured considerable stress due to the Landlord’s actions and they
were forced to move. The move caused
unexpected expense as well as increased rent for the new
rental unit. I have considered that the Tenants are now paying an extra $330.00 per month in rent that they would
not be paying but for the Landlord’s actions.
This kind of behaviour on the part of the landlord must strongly be
condemned. A substantial fine is
necessary for its general deterrence effect.
 
29. 
Given all of the
above and my knowledge of similar cases
before the Board, it seems to me a reasonable administrative fine in all of the circumstances here would be $2000.00.
 
 
Rent Differential:
 
30.  With respect to rent differential, the Tenants are now
paying $330.00 more per month than they were for the rental unit. I see no reason not to grant the Tenants
the remedy requested in this regard. The Tenants new unit is comparable to the previous
and no evidence was led that the new rent is in any way unreasonable. An order
will issue requiring the Landlord
to pay to the Tenants $3 960.00 for rent differential for a period
of one year.
 
Moving and Storage:
 
31.  The Tenants incurred reasonable out of pocket expenses
in the amount of $1042.67. According to the TB’s testimony and receipts submitted, the Tenants rented a U-Haul on three occasions
and hired movers from Kijiji
in the amount of $700. Although no receipts
were provided, based on my knowledge of similar situations, I am satisfied
these are reasonable moving expenses.
 
Additional Remedies:
 
32.  Finally, the Tenants requested by way of other Board
remedies, a punitive find in the amount of $5000.00. Based on the quantum awarded to the Tenants, I find they have been reasonably compensated and therefore the claim for punitive damages
is denied.
 
33. 
This order contains all of the reasons for the decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Tenants application is granted.




 
2.     The Landlord shall pay to the Tenants
$53.00 for the cost of filing the
application.
 
3.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Landlord
and Tenant Board an administrative fine in the amount of $2000.00 by on or
before February 1, 2022.
 
4.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants $3,960.00. This amount represents all of the increased rent that the Tenants has
incurred.
 
5.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants $1,042.67, for the reasonable out-of-pocket expenses that the Tenants has incurred for
moving.
 
6.     The total amount
the Landlord owes the Tenants
is $5 055.67.
 
7.     The Landlord shall pay the Tenants the full amount
owing by February 15, 2022.
 
8.    
If the Landlord does not pay the Tenants the full amount owing by February 15,
2022 the Tenant will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from February 16, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the outstanding
balance.
 












 
January 25, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Dana Wren
Member, Landlord and Tenant
Board
 
Eastern-RO
255 Albert Street, 4th Floor
Ottawa ON K1P6A9
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
Payment
of the fine must be made to the Board by the deadline set out above. The fine
can be paid by certified cheque, bank draft
or money order made payable
to the Minister of Finance. If paying
in person, the debt can also be paid by cash, credit card or debit
card.

