Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-08
File number:	
EAT-91896-20

Citation:	Pedros v Patry, 2022 CanLII 87959 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js3pd>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
30
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: EAT-91896-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


317, 539 ARMSTRONG ROAD KINGSTON ON K7M0C6


 




Between:


Trisha Pedros Robert Vrooman


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Jay Patry


Landlord



 
 
 
Trisha Pedros and Robert Vrooman
(the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that Jay Patry (the 'Landlord') failed
to meet the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety, housing or maintenance standards.
 
This application was heard by video conference
on November 24, 2021.
 
At 10:11 am, the Tenants, Chantel
Morrissette the Tenant’s
Witness, Charlie Moore the
Landlord and Gregg Foss the Landlord’s Representative attended the
hearing.
 
Determinations and Reasons:
 
1.    The rental unit is a 2-bedroom apartment
in a multi-unit building.
 
2.    The tenancy began on or about February
2020.
 
3.    The Tenants filed
a T6 application on September 28, 2020 alleging that
the Landlord failed to meet the Landlord’s maintenance obligations under s.20(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act (the ‘Act’) stemming from problems relating to
air conditioning unit, leaking sewage from bathrooms and dishwasher, carpet
beetles, garbage cans for dog waste, filthy garbage room, dirty halls, lack of
hand sanitizer, moss and black mold on the balcony.
 
4.   
The Tenants are seeking a rent
abatement and a Board order for the Landlord to hire a licenced plumber
and to hire someone to “deal with the filthy
building.” They also seek an order for the Landlord to hire an
exterminator and to buy garbage cans for all entrances and to test the water in
the unit for contamination. The
Tenants also seek an order to prohibit a rent increase until the Landlord
completes the work.




 
 
 
Testimony and Evidence
 
5.   
The Tenants
submitted into evidence
photos, videos and emails to support the claims in the application and their testimony at
the hearing.
 
Air Conditioner:
 
6.   
It was the testimony
of the Tenants that the issue with the air conditioner was resolved on or about April 2021.
 
Carpet Beetles:
 
7.    It was the testimony of the Tenants
that the issue
of carpet beetles
has been resolved.
 
Garbage Cans/Garbage Room:
 
8.    It was the testimony of the Tenants
the issue has been resolved.
 
Hand Sanitizer:
 
9.   
It was the testimony of the Tenants
the issue has been resolved.
 
Carpets:
 
10. The Tenants claimed
that the carpets
in the rental unit have never been cleaned and that
the last person had to move due to allergies and beetles. No evidence no substantive testimony was
led to support this allegation.
 
Moss and black mold:
 
11. It was the testimony of the Tenants
that moss and black mold are growing
on the balcony of the rental unit and many attempts have been made to
communicate with the Landlord on this matter.
No evidence was submitted to support the Tenants’ testimony.
 
12. I am not satisfied that the Landlord
can be found to be in breach
of s.20(1) of the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act”) in this instance.
 
Sewage and Odour:
 
13. The most serious allegation in the T6 application
is that of leaking sewage and odour from the
toilets in both bathrooms
and dishwasher in the rental unit. The Tenants
claim this has resulted in medical issues and
allergies.
 
14.
The Tenants
submitted photos, video and written
communication to support
their testimony.




 
15.
It was the testimony
of the Tenants that they notified the Landlord of the issue in
or around February 2020.
 
16.
In response,
the Landlord’s Property
Manager attended the unit
and contacted a plumber for further
investigation. The Tenants confirmed
that plumbers attended the unit.
 
17.
Following that,
there were a series of actions taken
by the Landlord to investigate the issue.
 
18.
It was the testimony
of the Tenants that they also contacted
the City, Health Unit, Fire Department and gas company. No
reports were submitted as evidence.
 
19.
Upon inspection by both the Fire Department and the gas company, no Co2 was detected
and therefore no further actions by these agencies were taken.
 
20.
It was the testimony of the Tenants that they purchased from Amazon a Yezou, a multi-gas
meter reading devise on or about January 2021.
 
21. The Tenants video evidence shows the Tenant taking meter readings
from the Yezou. The devise has a range of illumination bars from 1-6 where the reading shows the magnitude
of the reading from 1 being the lowest to 6 being the highest. The video readings show ranges from 1-3 in
the tests submitted.
 
22.
No information was provided on what the readings mean other
than the Tenant noting that gas was present.
 
23.
The Tenants did not
provide any medical evidence
to support any claims between the
alleged gas and allergies.
 
24. The Tenant’s Witness
testified that she provides cleaning
services to the Tenants and that
she noted a smell and that she had no knowledge of the cause of the smell and
that the Landlord has arranged for various inspections to be completed to
assess the issue.
 
25.
I was not persuaded by the Witness’s testimony as it relates
to the severity and cause
of the issue.
 
26. It was not disputed by the Landlord that a smell was
present in the unit and that multiple attempts have been made to investigate
and remedy the issue including: replacing the toilet seals, cleaned drains,
contracting an engineering company who initiated
changes to the traps in
plumbing, ensured the vent stack system was properly functioning, re-routed the
venting in the attic, conducted a camera assessment of piping in bathrooms,
camera assessment of sump pump drains in the basement of the residential
complex.
 
27.
The Landlord
further testified that staff and plumbers have inspected the unit with reports
of no consistent odours.
 
28.
The Landlord
testified that the Tenants were offered a different unit which was refused by the Tenants. The Tenants indicated the offer was not suitable and was too
small.




 
29.
It was the position
of the Landlord that no similar complaints have been made by other tenants in the residential complex.
 
Analysis and
Determinations
 
30.  Section 20(1) of the Act reads as follows:
 
A landlord is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex,
including the rental units in
it, in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with
health, safety, housing and maintenance standards.
 
31. 
The standard of proof in
proceedings before this Board is “proof on a
balance
of probabilities.” By that standard, the party bearing the
burden of proof must show with evidence that, “more likely than not”, their
assertions are true. Where, the evidence
of the opposing party is as
believable as that of the party
bearing the burden of proof, that burden cannot be said to have been
discharged.
 
32. No substantial documentary evidence adduced by the Tenants,
either in part or taken in its entirety, suffices to meet the burden
of proof upon the Tenants to demonstrate that the Landlord has breached his
obligations as they pertain to the T6 application.
 
33. After considering all of the evidence, I cannot find
that the Landlord breached s.20 of the Act with respect to the sewage and odour
as alleged by the Tenants. I
acknowledge that the presence of the type of smell,
as described by the Tenants,
would be unpleasant, I find that the Tenants
were not able to identify any breach. Based on the testimony before me, I also find that the Landlord acted
reasonably following the reporting of the issue by the Tenants. Various experts were contracted and
multiple steps taken in attempts to identify and isolate any cause related to
the issue.
 
34. The case law supports the principle that a landlord
cannot be held financially liable for a problem he or she does not know about.
 
35. In the matter
before me, I find that the
Landlord acted reasonably and relied on the various experts contracted to investigate
the issue. The resulting reports
showed no identifiable cause for the alleged odour. The Tenants nor experts
could identify the breach and therefore the Landlord cannot be held liable. As such, the Tenants are not entitled to a
remedy for this application.
 
36.
The order contains all of the reasons for the decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Tenant’s T6 application is
dismissed.




 
 

February 8,
2022

Date Issued                                                                      Dana Wren
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Eastern-RO
255 Albert Street, 4th Floor
Ottawa ON K1P6A9
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

