Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-10
File number:	
EAT-90644-20-RV

Citation:	Schwarz v Wang, 2022 CanLII 55200 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpzh3>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
21.2 of the
Statutory Powers Procedure Act
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: EAT-90644-20-RV
 
 



In the matter
of:


1&2, 179 CAMBRIDGE STREET N OTTAWA ON
  K1R7A8


 




Between:


Anisah Schwarz
  Tianna Pidgeon


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Shuzy Wang


Landlord



 
 
Review Order
 
Anisah Schwarz
and Tianna Pidgeon (the
'Tenants') applied for an order
determining that Shuzy Wang (the 'Landlord') or the Landlord's superintendent
or the Landlord's agent harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered
with them, entered the rental unit illegally, substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the
Tenants or by a member of their household and withheld or deliberately
interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital service, care service, or food that the Landlord
is obligated to supply under the tenancy agreement.
 
This application was resolved by order EAT-90644-20 issued on December 21, 2021 (the ‘Board
Order’)
 
On December
30, 2021, the Landlord requested a review of the order,
alleging there are serious
errors in the Board Order..
 
A preliminary review of the review request
was completed without
a hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
On the basis of the
submissions made in the request, I am not satisfied that there is a serious error in the Board Order or that a serious
error occurred in the proceedings. My reasons follow below.
 
2.    
The Tenants’
T2 application was heard on October 20, 2021 and the Landlord
was not present but was
represented by her son, Steve Sun, who acted as her agent.
 
3.    
The Landlord filed the
request-to-review, claiming the following serious errors in the Board Order: the Board Member demonstrated biased citing a number of factors, inter




 
alia, permitting the Tenants to add/clarify remedies for their submitted
amended T2 application at the hearing, permitting video evidence not consented to by the Landlord,
and not upholding the principles of natural justice in the proceedings.
 
Amending
the Application
 
4.    
In the request-to-review, the Landlord makes reference to interim
order EAT-90644-20-IN issued on July
30, 2021 and claims that the Tenant failed to provide remedy-request amendments
on time and did not disclose to the Landlord the remedy-request amendments. I note that the interim
order indicates in a couple
of places (paras.
6 and 8 of the interim order) what may happen if any party, such as the Tenants, does not comply with
the order.
 
5.    
Even in the context of
any interim order, a Board Member has the ability to exercise his/her
discretion to grant a request to amend an application made at a hearing, if
satisfied the amendment is appropriate, and after considering factors such as prejudice to a party, whether the amendment is
necessary, whether the amendment request is made in good faith and is consistent with a fair and expeditious proceeding. Reference is made to
the Board’s Rules of Procedures Rule 15.
 
6.    
This is what the
presiding Member evidently did during the hearing. Reference is made to paragraphs 5 to 19 under the Determinations
section of the Board Order where the Member sets out in detail the considerations given
to the requested remedy amendments during the hearing,
acknowledging the non-compliance with the July 30, 2021 interim order and
disclosure thereof.
 
Claim: Bias
 
7.    
In the request-to-review, the Landlord claims
the Board Order is “completely biased towards the Landlord” which I believe her intention was
to mean just the opposite.
8.    
Therefore, I have considered the Landlord’s main allegation in the request-to-review to be that the
presiding Member was biased against the Landlord.
 
9.    
I do note that the
Landlord’s agent/son chose not to cross-examine the Tenants on their testimony. I note as well that the Landlord’s
agent/son did not raise any real steps to bring any perception of bias to the attention
of the Member in the hearing, so the Member could take and consider submissions
on this point and make a determination or, at the very least, to preserve his
concerns for the record. Had the Landlord’s agent/son done so, the Member would
have necessarily addressed such bias perceptions in the Board Order, or at the
very least, would have necessarily made reference to same.
 
10.  The failure of the Landlord’s agent/son to take these steps
in the hearing prejudices the consideration of the allegations of
bias in respect to the Member’s behaviour in the hearing on review.
 
11.  I note the presiding Member
set out the important points that the Landlord’s agent/son made or testify upon at the
hearing. Reference is made to paragraphs 41 to 45 of the




 
Determinations section of the Board Order. The Board Order states the Landlord’s agent/son basically
relied upon his own testimony
for putting forth the Landlord’s position in trying to rebut the claims. For example, the request-to-review claims the video evidence was
allegedly illegally produced. However,
the Member clearly states that in respect of the video evidence proffered, the
Landlord’s agent/son “did not provide any compelling submissions nor dispute
the allegations about the issues of the Landlord’s sister and the visits to the
rental unit” (para. 45).
 
12.  Further in the Board Order, the Member
considers again the video evidence produced and states in para. 52 that “I acknowledge that the video evidence depicts one side of the conversation and in my assessment will
be weighted accordingly. I will also note that SS did not challenge the
testimony and evidence of AS.” Here,
it is also clear that first, the Member did not give much weight to the video
evidence (as it only depicted
one side) and second, the Landlord’s agent/son
raised no challenge to the video evidence proffered, neither theTenant’s
testimony.
 
13.  Aside from the absence of any bias concerns raised
during the hearing, I did not find any instance of unreasonable
behaviour on the part of the presiding Member in respect
of any of the alleged
instances of bias contained in the request-to-review. Whether it was the matter of video evidence
being led and considered, or the application being amended and permitted, for example, there
is nothing unreasonable that the presiding Member appears to have done. Again, I note very importantly that no
mention is made in the request-to- review that the Landlord’s agent/son had
objected to any of the proceedings during the hearing.
 
14.  The legal test for bias by a judge or Member is well established. In Committee for Justice
and Liberty v. Canada (National Energy Board), 1976 CanLII 2 (SCC), 1976 CanLII
2 (S.C.C.), [1978] 1 S.C.R. 369, the test for apprehension of bias which
governs in Canadian courts was finally decided by the Supreme Court at p. 394
which states:
 
“The apprehension of bias must be a reasonable one
held by reasonable and right minded persons, applying
themselves to the question and obtaining thereon
the required information…that
test is ‘what would an informed person, viewing the matter realistically and practically – and having thought the matter through – conclude? Would he think that it is more likely
than not that [the decision
maker], whether consciously or unconsciously,
would not decide fairly?”
 
15.  Restating again in another way, I do not
believe that an informed and reasonable person, viewing the matter
realistically and practically, and having thought the matter through would conclude
that there is any reasonable apprehension of bias in
this case. The Board Order and
the request-to-review do not evidence any conduct that was in any way out of
the ordinary or unreasonable in the circumstances.
 
Hearing procedure re natural justice.
 
16.  The Landlord further
states the Board Order was issued on December 21, 2021 and only
gives ten days to pay the amount ordered therein and violates the Landlord’s
ability to review/appeal the order. The
Landlord claims the Board Order as it stands “is in breach




 
of the Canadian
Criminal Code sec 184 [the Landlord referred
to section 148, but meant 184] and the Canadian privacy Act”.
 
17.  The issue of the video evidence is dealt
with above in the “bias” claim section. For
the sake of completeness of this preliminary review, section 184 of the Criminal
Code (R.S.C., 1985, c. C-46) deals with the intentional interception
of private communications, whether they be “electro-magnetic, acoustic,
mechanical or other device” communications. The
video produced at the hearing was not an intercepted communication and so the
Landlord’s request-to-review claim here has no basis. Further the Landlord cites the Privacy Act (R.S.C., 1985, c.
P-21), but the Privacy Act deals with the collection, retention and disposal of personal information (inter alia, banks that collect, retain and dispose of personal information). Again, the video evidence has no connection with such personal information
under the T2 application and so the claim of breach thereof has no basis under
the request-to-review.
 
18.  With regard to the Landlord having ample
opportunity to review/appeal, indeed this request-to-review is proof that the Landlord
was able to exercise her right to request a review/appeal in accordance with the
Board’s Rules 26.4 to 26.6.
 
19.  With regard to the Landlord being given ten
days to pay the ordered amounts to the Tenants, it is not uncommon or irregular
that the Board order a payment or an eviction within a limited period of time. For example, orders for rent arrears
typically provide an accepted “standard” eleven days for tenants to pay
landlords or face eviction. Another
example is when tenants cause serious impairment to another person or perhaps
conduct a serious illegal activity, the Board has the discretion to
order a shorter period of time to evict, such as five days. In this particular case, the Board Order
orders the Landlord to pay the Tenants within ten days of the Board Order
issuance date or face interest being assessed against any unpaid amount. In my view, ten days is not an
unreasonable amount of time considering the rental period under the tenancy
evidently commences on the first of every month.
 
20.  The request-to-review in effect makes a
strong assertion that the Member favoured one side’s testimony/submissions over
the other. However, when it comes to
analyzing what was taken in to produce the final order on a balance of
probabilities, it is up to the Member hearing the evidence to weigh the
submissions of each party (for example, for relevancy, credibility and reliability thereto); that is not the task of a reviewing
Member on a review.
 
21.  Overall, the Board Order contains a
reasonable basis for the determinations made by the presiding Member based on
the evidence submitted at the hearing and the Member set out in sufficient detail the reasons
for her determinations. In accordance with Guideline 8 of the Board’s Interpretation
Guidelines, the Member’s reasonable determinations and exercise of discretion
will not be interfered with.
 
22.  In my view, the Landlord’s son/agent represented the Landlord at the hearing
and had the full opportunity to rebut the Tenants’ claims through cross-examination, testimony and the leading of evidence. The presiding Member did not prevent the
Landlord’s agent/son from any of this. Now,
the Landlord has filed a review request that the Member erred or




 
was biased, and
this leaves me little else but to conclude the Landlord is simply not satisfied
with the resulting Board Order. A
review is not an opportunity to re-argue one’s case in front of a different
Member of the Board in the hope of a more favorable
outcome. Neither is it an opportunity to present evidence
and submissions at the time of requesting
the review, which could and should have been presented at the original hearing.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The request
to review order EAT-90644-20 issued on
December 21, 2021 is denied.
The order is confirmed and remains unchanged.
 
 
 
 
January 10, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Alex Brkic
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
Eastern-RO
255 Albert
Street, 4th Floor Ottawa ON K1P6A9
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

