Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-11
File number:	
EAT-92183-20; 
 EAT-90778-20

Citation:	Couture v Mikhael Holdings Inc., 2022 CanLII 55221 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpzh4>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: EAT-90778-20
File Number: EAT-92183-20
 
 
 
 



In the matter
of:


8, 480 COOPER
STREET OTTAWA ON K1R5H9


 




Between:


Josee Couture


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Mikhael
Holdings Inc.


Landlord



 
 
 
Josee Couture (the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that
Mikhael Holdings Inc. (the 'Landlord') or the Landlord's superintendent or the
Landlord's agent substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or by a member of the Tenant's
household.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 13, 2021.
The Tenant and the Landlord attended the hearing.
Determinations:
 
1.     The Tenant’s application
is a T2 Application, brought pursuant to s.29(1) Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’), which alleges
that the Landlord, or the Landlord's superintendent / agent substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the
Tenant.
 
2.     The first T2 Application
was filed on July 1, 2020 (File # EAT-90778-20). The Tenant filed a
near identical T2 Application on October 17, 2020 (File # EAT-92183-20). Both matters were heard together.
 
3.     The tenancy began in May
2020. The Tenant was unable to see
the rental unit in person prior to agreeing to rent the rental unit due to the
pandemic but did have the benefit of a “virtual” tour. The Tenant did see the rental unit in person on April 27, 2021,
a few days prior to moving in.




 
4.    
The
monthly rent was $1,550.00. The
Tenant moved out of the rental unit on December 31, 2020. Both T2 applications,
file # EAT-90778-20 and file # EAT-92183-20, raised the following allegations:
 
A the sound proofing
of the apartment was inadequate;
B portions of the
apartment were not painted or poorly painted; C there was minimal
security of the screen doors on the balcony;
D the floors were not sanded/polished as represented prior to move in;
E the apartment was filthy upon move-in;
F the buzzer
to the apartment was broken;
5.    
Application file # EAT-90778-20 raised the following
additional allegations: G
that the Tenant was restricted access to the storage unit
H that the deck was
very weathered/rundown
6.    
Application file # EAT-92183-20 raised the following
additional allegations: I
that the Tenant’s concerns have largely been ignored & mocked
J that the plumbing
and electrical was not up to
code
 
A Sound
 
7.    
The
Tenant indicated she had trouble sleeping in the unit due to loud noise, for
various reasons, including people running up and down the stairs in the common
hallways outside her unit, the
vibration/sounds emanating from the building AC/heating units, people walking
around in adjoining units..etc. The
Tenant testified the noise became a concern at the end of summer.  The Tenant indicated that she works from
home and that she required a quiet place to work and live and was reassured
several times prior to move-in that the noise would not be an issue.
 
8.    
The
Landlord testified that the building is older and is a wooden structure, and in
any event, denies there was any “substantial” interference with respect to the
noise issue.
 
9.    
I found the Tenant’s
evidence credible on this issue The Tenant went to great lengths to document the noise levels and raise her
concerns with the Landlord on a number of occasions prior to - and after - the tenancy began.
 
10. 
While
the building itself is old and can be expected to have some noise, I find the
Landlord could have taken some measures to help mitigate the noise issues
experienced by the Tenant, especially
since this issue was raised as an area of concern by the Tenant prior to her move in.




 
 
11. 
For
this reason, I find on a balance of probabilities that the Landlord, or the
Landlord's superintendent/agent substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment of the Tenant’s rental unit as a result of its failure to address the
noise concerns raised by the Tenant. I
am awarding the Tenant a 10% abatement of rent for the months of October
through to December, as a result of this issue, for a total abatement of
$465.00.
 
B Paint
Job & renovations
 
12. 
The
Tenant stated the paint job performed prior to her move-in was incomplete or
poorly done and produced pictures in support of her allegation. The Tenant also alleged the bathroom was
gutted at the time of her “virtual tour” but stated she was assured the
bathroom would be renovated. The
Tenant alleged that upon move-in, the paint job and bathroom was not as
promised, stating there were chips, portions not painted, mirror was not
properly cut, and overall poor workmanship.
 
13. 
While
the Tenant was clearly not pleased with the renovations performed by the Landlord, based upon the photographic
evidence presented, I do not find that the Landlord’s paint job/bathroom
renovations (or lack thereof) amount to substantial interference with
the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. Simply put, I do not find that the work performed resulted
in any disruption to the Tenant’s ability to normally reside in the rental
unit. This portion of the Tenant’s
application is dismissed.
 
C Minimal
Security
 
14. 
 The Tenant alleged
there was minimal
security of the screen doors on the balcony and to
the fire escape in her bedroom. While
the Tenant would have preferred a more reliable security mechanism, very
limited evidence was presented on this issue.
I do not find that this allegation amounted to substantial
interference with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit, or that
there was any disruption to the Tenant’s ability to normally reside in the
rental unit. This portion of the
Tenant’s application is dismissed.




 
D Floors
 
15. 
The
Tenant alleged the floors were not polished or sanded prior to move in as she
was assured and produced
pictures in support
of her allegation. The floors appear to fairly
old with some roughness and a few minor stains where the floor meets the
walls, but I find they would not impact the Tenant’s ability to normally reside
in the rental unit. I do not find
that this allegation amounted
to substantial interference with the Tenant’s
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. This
portion of the Tenant’s application is dismissed
 
E Condition of apartment upon move-in:
 
16. 
The
Tenant submitted it took over 40 hours to clean the apartment upon move in. She stated the Landlord’s failure to clean
the unit prior to move in substantially interfered with her reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit. The
Tenant produced photos in support of this allegation and text messages she sent
the Landlord about this issue.
 
17. 
I find
on a balance of probabilities that the Landlord, or the Landlord's
superintendent/agent substantially interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable
enjoyment of the Tenant’s rental unit as a result of the condition of the
rental unit move in. It is certainly inconvenient for a Tenant to
move into a rental unit that has not been cleaned. I find that the Tenant lost
the use of the rental unit for one full day as a result of the cleaning that
she had to undertake, for a total abatement of $50.95.
 
F the Buzzer
 
18. 
The
Tenant indicated the buzzer for her unit does not work. The Landlord testified that the buzzer for the entire building has not worked for a long
time, and there was never any representation to the Tenant that it
would be functional. The Landlord further stated the Tenant was still able to
obtain her mail from her designated mailbox. The Tenant failed to show that her
enjoyment of the rental unit was impacted as a result of the buzzer
malfunction. I do not find on a balance of probabilities that the
Landlord, or the Landlord's
superintendent/agent substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of
the Tenant’s rental unit as a result of this issue.
 
G The storage unit
 
19. 
The
Tenant testified that the storage unit was not accessible upon move-in for a period of time but was
unclear as to when it was restored. The
Landlord stated that the basement storage was a “complementary service” and in
any event, was only inaccessible for a short period of time while the Landlord
was doing renovations in the basement.  While
the lack of storage may have
been inconvenient for the
Tenant, I do not find on a balance of probabilities that the Landlord, or the Landlord's superintendent/agent substantially




 
interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the Tenant’s rental unit as a result of this issue.
 
H Deck was weathered/rundown
 
20.  The Tenant indicated
at the hearing that she was abandoning this allegation.
 
I/J Complaints ignored/mocked & Plumbing
and electrical not up to code
 
21. 
Based
upon the evidence presented, it appears the parties had different expectations
at the time of entering into this tenancy and that this lack of common
understanding, resulted in
frustration on the part of both parties. The
Tenant says she was mocked and ignored as a result of the issues raised, which
allegation was denied by the
Landlord. The Tenant’s allegations
were not supported by the written communications presented between the parties
and, in this regard, I find the evidence of the Landlord to be more believable
on this issue.
 
22. 
No
evidence was presented regarding the plumbing/electrical allegation to support
a finding that this allegation amounted to substantial interference with
the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. This portion of the Tenant’s application is dismissed.
 
It
is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord
shall pay the Tenant a rent abatement
in the total amount of $515.95, on or before January
31, 2022.
 
2.    
If the Landlord does
not pay the Tenant the full amount owing by January 31, 2022 the Landlord will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from January 31, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the outstanding
balance.
 
3.    
The Tenant
has the right,
at any time, to collect
the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.












January 11, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Peter Nicholson
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Eastern-RO
255 Albert
Street, 4th Floor Ottawa ON K1P6A9




 
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

