Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-22
File number:	
EAT-86895-19

Citation:	EAT-86895-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 127293 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jv070>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: EAT-86895-19
 
 
 
 
JS and TS
(the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that AK
and KF (the 'Landlords') substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of
their household.
This application was heard by way of videoconference on December 9,
2021.
 
The Tenant Jeremy Stirling
(“JS”) attended the hearing on behalf of the Tenants.
The Landlords also attended
the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
Introduction
 
1.    On June 14, 2019 the Landlords took possession of a duplex
consisting of XXX, which the Landlords moved into, and XXX
(the “rental unit”) where the Tenants reside.
 
2.   
The Tenants
claim substantial interference with their reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit due to construction going on in the duplex during the period of June 14,
2019 to November 1, 2019.
 
3.   
As set out below, JS led evidence as to the nature of the work involved and its impact on
the Tenants.
 
4.   
According to the Landlords, when
they took possession of the property, it had been neglected and had a number of structural problems
that had to be addressed
immediately as indicated on their home inspection report, most
particularly the roof and foundation




 
work. They argue that the work that was conducted enhanced
the Tenants’ ability
to enjoy their rental unit
and improved their quality of life.
 
Repairs Completed and the alleged
substantial interference
Contractors on Site
5.   
On June 24, 2019
contractors were on site all day between 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. The Tenants
asserted that is was a disturbance to have them on site. Most of the work was
conducted outside with a maximum
of one hour conducting assessments inside the rental unit.
Foundation Inspection
 
6.    On July 10, 2019 from noon to 1:00 p.m. and July 11, 2019 from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. a
foundation inspection took place where the inspector had to enter the rental
unit a few times.
 
7.    JS testified that although these were not lengthy visits,
they were disruptive.
 
8.    The Landlords submit that the visit was focused on the
exterior of the house and the contractors’ inspection of the interior
of the rental unit lasted approximately fifteen
minutes.
 
Roof
replaced
 
9.    On July 15, 2019 and July 16, 2019 roofers were
working on the property to replace the roofing
on the entire duplex. The Tenant alleges
that this should
have only taken the two days indicated, but a roofer returned
on July 17, 2019.
 
10. JS testified that the Tenants
had to move their vehicles
and park on the street,
there was debris during the
repairs, in addition to excessive noise from the roofing work.
 
11.
The Landlords’ inspection report indicated
that it was crucial to replace the roof as it was in
very poor condition and required immediate replacement. The Landlords testified
that the Tenants had previously complained of shingles falling off the roof.
They submit that the third visit by the roofer was an unobtrusive visit to pick
up debris and that parking on the street was free and plentiful during the
roofing work.
Preparing for Attic Inspection
 
12. On September 17, 2019 the Tenants prepared
for an attic inspection by emptying out their
attic space, but the inspection did not in fact occur. The Tenants did not know
if they should return their belongings back in the attic.




 
13. The Landlord testified that contractors did not end up
needing to inspect the attic in the rental unit because
the two units on the property share a common wall and have identical attics.
 
Porch and foundation repair
 
14.
A significant amount
of work took place to repair and waterproof the foundation of the property. This work occurred
for approximately two weeks in late September
2019 to early October 2019. JS testified that this was very disruptive
for the Tenants, with a significant amount of work being done on the exterior
of the unit relating to the porch
and foundation work.
 
15.
The front and back porches were demolished on September 19, 2019 and September 20, 2019 in preparation for foundation
work to be conducted. The Tenants had no access through the back entrance
of their rental unit initially until the Landlords
moved temporary stairs from
the front to the back entrance of the house on September 29, 2019, at which
time access to the unit was moved to the back entrance. The front porch was
rebuilt between October 7, 2019 and October 11, 2019.
 
16.
The Landlords
testified that removing the porches was required in order to access the
foundation, and that the temporary
movable steps were installed on September 29, 2019
to minimize disruption to the Tenants.
 
17.
The Landlords
also testified that the foundation work was not conducted on weekends. They acknowledge that the work was inconvenient but argue that it was critical to restoring
the structural integrity of the property as the foundation of the property had
not been waterproofed and was a major structural deficiency.
 
18.
According to the Landlords, some rainfall at the time that the foundation work was taking place delayed and extended
timeframe of the work and submitted that 50% of the work was conducted on the
Landlords’ unit and not the Tenants’. Finally, they allege that the Tenants had
previously complained of water leaking into their basement and that the
foundation work had to be completed.
Landscaping
 
19. From middle to late October
2019 work was conducted to grade the backyard and install
fences.
 
20. The work was conducted at irregular times and
resulted in a lot of crew members
on site. JS testified that this caused significant noise and vibration
disturbance with contractors sawing, hammering, and nailing near the unit. This work also meant that the Tenants had to move their vehicles out of their
parking lots to keep them safe and made it difficult for them to get in and out
of their home easily. According to JS, the work made it difficult for




 
them to have a normal existence. The irregular schedules
of the contactors was also disruptive.
 
21. The Landlords submit that this work was all conducted
outside the house and only 50% of the work related
to the rental unit, whereas
the other half was conducted on the Landlord’s side of the duplex.
 
Analysis
 
22.
The Tenants’
allegations of substantial interference concern disruption and inconvenience
concern maintenance, repairs and renovations at the rental unit and the residential
complex. Therefore, section
8 of Ontario
Regulation 516/06
passed pursuant to
the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the “Regulation”) must be applied.
 
23. Section 8 of the Regulation limits the ability
of tenants to obtain abatements of rent when a
landlord undertakes improvements or repairs in order to ensure landlords are
not deterred from undertaking repairs, maintenance, or capital improvements.
 
24. Subsection 8 (2) of the Regulation states:
 
8(2) For the purposes
of section 22, paragraph 3 of subsection 29
(1)  and
subsection 31 (1) of
the Act,
this section applies
to the Board in making a
determination,
(a)  as to whether a landlord,
superintendent or agent of a landlord, in carrying out work in a
rental unit or residential complex, substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the unit or complex for all
usual purposes by a tenant or former tenant, or by a member of the household of
a tenant or former tenant; and
(b) 
whether an abatement of rent is justified in the circumstances.
 
25.  Subsection 8 (3) of the Regulation reads as follows:
 
8 (3) In making
a determination described in subsection (2),
 
(a) 
the Board shall consider
the effect of the carrying
out of the work on the use
of the rental unit or residential complex by the tenant or former tenant, and
by members of the household of the tenant or former tenant; and
 
(b) 
the Board shall not determine that
an interference was substantial unless the carrying
out of the work constituted an interference that was
unreasonable in the circumstances with the use and enjoyment of the rental unit
or residential complex by the tenant or former tenant, or by a member of the household of the tenant or
former tenant.




 
 
 
 
26. The evidence adduced by the Tenants demonstrates that
the dust, noise and debris associated with the repair work conducted on their
unit and the adjacent unit inconvenienced and disrupted their usual use of the
rental unit and their enjoyment was reduced while the work was conducted. I accept that the work performed by the Landlord negatively affected and
inconvenienced the Tenants.
 
27. However, in accordance with s.8(3)(b) of the
Regulation, the Tenants must establish that the work causes an interference that is unreasonable in the circumstances before a finding in the Tenants’ favour can be
made.
 
28. Having regard to the nature and scope of the roof restoration work at the duplex and the
effect on the Tenant’s use of
the rental unit, I find that the disruption caused in this case was proportionate to
what one would reasonably expect.
 
29. The evidence here suggests that the Landlord was
required to perform a significant amount of work to ensure the residential
complex is in a good state of repair. The noise, inconvenience and disruptions the Tenants complained of are those that may be expected to accompany this kind of
extensive work and were not unreasonable given the scope of the renovation that
was being conducted. There was no
evidence before me that the Landlords could have done the work in a less
disruptive manner.
 
30. Furthermore, the work that was carried out occurred at reasonable times of the day. While there is some evidence of delay and
irregular hours by contractors, I find that this is not unusual during
renovations and does not result in an interference that is unreasonable in the
circumstances.
 
31. I agree with the reasoning of Vice Chair Ruth Carey in
her decision in TST-54860-14 (Re), 2016 CanLII 38333 (ON LTB) at paragraph 79 of that decision,
where she analyzed the meaning of s.8(3) of the Regulation and stated:
 
 
Paragraph 8(3)(a)
requires the Board to look at the individual circumstances of the Tenant and
the impact on him. So the impacts described above and experienced by the Tenant
are important but pursuant to s. 8(3)(b) the Board
is barred from making a finding
that the Landlord
substantially interfered with the
Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment
regardless of the severity of those
impacts unless the Tenant leads sufficient evidence to establish
unreasonableness with respect to the work being done. That is a very difficult
hurdle to cross and except in rather obvious and egregious cases it usually
requires a tenant
to lead evidence
from engineers and contractors.




 
32.
Given the above,
I have insufficient evidence to conclude, on a balance of probabilities, that
the Landlords substantially interfered with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit or residential complex
by the Tenants or by a member
of their household within the meaning of section 8 (3) of the Regulation.
 
33. Accordingly, the Tenants’
application must be dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Tenants’ application is dismissed.
 
 
February 22, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Anita Lovrich
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Eastern-RO
255 Albert Street, 4th Floor
Ottawa ON K1P6A9
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

