Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-15
File number:	
EAT-91999-20

Citation:	Ketola v Spooner, 2022 CanLII 100342 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jspsp>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: EAT-91999-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


GREEN METAL ROOF,
2257 DARLING ROAD ROAD
CLAYTON ON K0A1P0


 




Between:


Arne Ketola
  Jarl Ketola


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Catherine Spooner


Landlord



 
 
 
Arne Ketola and Jarl Ketola (the
'Tenants') applied for an order determining that Catherine Spooner (the
'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with them; entered
the rental unit illegally; altered
the locking system on a door
giving entry to the rental unit or
residential complex without
giving them replacement keys; and substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their household.
 
This application was heard by
videoconference on November
24, 2021 at 10:40 AM.
 
The Tenants, Arne Ketola
and Jarl Ketola, and the Landlord attended
the hearing. The Landlord
was represented by Alex Ferguson.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Tenant’s T2 application was
filed with the Board on October 2, 2020. An
amended T2 application filed with the Board on March 10, 2021 was accepted at the hearing.
The application relates to a tenancy
which commenced on April 1, 2018 pursuant
to a written tenancy agreement. The tenancy terminated on November 13, 2020, when the Landlord locked out the Tenants.
 
2.     The Tenants’ application alleges persistent harassment
by the Landlord for the duration of the tenancy, which
caused them stress and anxiety and ultimately forced them to move
out. They allege illegal entry to the rental unit and illegal lockouts, and that the aggregate of the conduct was a
substantial interference with their reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit.
 
3.    
The remedies sought by the Tenant
comprise:
(a)  
that the Board levy an administrative fine;




 
(b)  
compensation of $7,460 for out-of-pocket expenses;
and,
(c)  
a
rent abatement of 100% for the entirety
of the tenancy.
 
4.     For the reasons
outlined below, I find that the Tenants
have proven, in part, allegations of harassment, illegal entry, substantial interference with
reasonable enjoyment, and illegal lockout, and I have accordingly granted a rent
abatement of $1,800.00.
 
The tenancy agreement and Board’s
jurisdiction
 
5.     The tenancy agreement is an eight-page typewritten
document, titled “Residential Lease Agreement”, and dated April 1, 2018. The agreement
is not on any standard form, and in substance agrees to rent at the rate of $800.00 per month. The precise term of the lease
is ambiguous, as the agreement provides, “The Term of this lease is to be a
21-year lease, to be renewed every 3 years.”
 
6.    
The tenancy agreement indicates that the Tenants
would live in a main dwelling
building, which was also occupied by the Landlord, and operate a “home
based business” out of an ancillary building “Dragonfly Cabin” (which all parties agreed was the rental unit in this application).
 
7.     Section 5(i) of the Act exempts from the Board’s
jurisdiction any “living accommodation whose
occupant or occupants
are required to share a bathroom or kitchen facility
with the owner, the owner’s spouse, child or parent or the spouse’s child or parent, and where the owner, spouse, child or parent lives
in the building in which the living accommodation is located.”
 
8.     The lease on its face would appear to place the
tenancy beyond the Board’s jurisdiction by operation of section 5(i), as living
in the main dwelling building would have had Landlord and Tenants sharing a
kitchen and bathroom. Nevertheless,
the Landlord and Tenants agreed that there was never any intention that the Tenants
would live in the main residence, and the real intention
(and actual action of the Tenants) was that the Tenants live in Dragonfly,
which is a self-contained residential premises with its own kitchen and
bathroom facilities.
 
9.     Subsection 202(1) allows me to “ascertain the real
substance of all transactions and activities
relating to a residential complex
or a rental unit.” I therefore find that, despite the tenancy agreement on its face placing the tenancy beyond the Board’s
jurisdiction, the real substance of the tenancy
was for the Tenants to have
exclusive possession of the cabin that forms the subject
matter of this application.
 
10.  As part of the lease, the Tenants
also maintained elsewhere
on the property bat colonies and aviaries for birds of prey. The Landlord’s representative invites me
to infer a commercial purpose to this activity of the Tenants, or at least
treat the relationship between Landlord and Tenants as something approaching a
joint venture that might either mitigate responsibility, or exclude the tenancy
from the Board’s jurisdiction.




 
11.  The aviaries are attached to one of the Tenants’
undertakings that they describe as a bird sanctuary. The name associated with this sanctuary is alternately described
in documents submitted as evidence as the Ontario Specialized Species Centre
and The Centre for the Conservation of Specialized Species. The aviaries provide shelter and some
breeding of bats and protected birds of prey.
 
12.  I note however that the tenancy agreement addresses
the Tenants’ commercial undertakings as follows:
“The Tenant may also use the Lease part of the Property
for the following home-based
businesses: The Centre for the Conservation of Specialized Species, Computer
Repair Business, and any other home based business. The Tenant is responsible for all permits and licences relating
to this home-based business…”
 
13.  Section 5(j) excludes from the Board’s jurisdiction
“premises occupied for business or agricultural purposes with living
accommodation attached if the occupancy for both purposes is under a single
lease and the same person occupies the premises and the living accommodation.” Leases of mixed residential and commercial use therefore may fall beyond the Board’s jurisdiction.
 
14.  Jurisdiction is considered through the lens of the “predominant use” test,
which arose from a substantively similar
exemption in the predecessor Part IV of the Landlord and Tenant Act. In
Re Hahn et al. and Kramer, 1979 CanLII 2111 (ON SC), Cory J. commented
on the construction of the exemption:
 
It is to be noted that the
exemption clause specifies that the premises be occupied for business purposes
with living accommodation attached. To me, the wording of the section seems to
indicate that the business purposes should predominate. The Act appears
to specifically and carefully proceed
in a manner which emphasizes the business use to be made of the combined premises so as to
take them outside the definition of residential premises.
 
15.  In my view, the clear intention of the tenancy agreement
on its face is to treat any commercial activities as ancillary to the
residential purpose, thereby making the predominant purpose of the tenancy a
residential one. I am not satisfied
that the submissions of the Landlord that the “real substance” of the agreement was otherwise, and
therefore do not believe it appropriate to engage subsection 202(1), as
previously discussed.
 
16.  In addition, I am not satisfied that the Landlord has
proven that the Ontario Specialized Species Centre is in fact a commercial
undertaking. While I am to conclude from the testimony of the parties that the
undertaking relates to the protection, and possibly breeding, of birds, I
cannot draw any inference of a commercial purpose. The Centre would appear on the limited
evidence before me to be something more than a hobby, but something less than a commercial
enterprise.
 
17.  Likewise, I reject the claim that the Landlord and
Tenants were in some form of joint venture. The primary
oral evidence for such joint
venture rests with the Landlord
taking




 
an active interest and participation in the bird sanctuary. I do not consider a joint venture proven.
 
18.  Even were there proof of a joint venture, a business
or other relationship on a business- like undertaking between the parties in my
view does not take the tenancy outside of the Board’s jurisdiction. The Act expressly exempts or affords
special treatment to certain classes of residential landlord-tenant relationships, including farm-worker accommodation
(s. 5(b)), accommodation expressly linked to employment or service provision
(s. 5(h)), and building superintendents (ss. 93-94). I am not prepared to read in any analogous grounds to a statute
that is fundamentally designed to provide a clear code for governing residential
tenancies.
 
19.  I therefore find that any commercial element
to the tenancy agreement is ancillary to its residential purpose, and that the Board has jurisdiction
to hear this matter.
 
Harassment
 
20.  The Tenants have testified that they encountered constant harassment from the Landlord from the commencement of the
lease, and this harassment substantially interfering with their reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit. They
seek a 100% rent abatement for the entirety of their period of occupancy.
 
21.  The Tenants’ claims
of harassment and substantial interference are rooted in sections 22 and 23 of the Act:
 
22  A landlord shall not
at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit and before the
day on which an order evicting the tenant is executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all
usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.
 
23  A landlord shall not harass,
obstruct, coerce, threaten
or interfere with a
tenant.
 
22.  From the testimony of the Landlord and Tenants, a
point of contention arose over the aviaries.
The birds kept by the tenants were easily disturbed, and also protected species. Injury to the birds might result in fines against the
person causing the injury, which oral testimony of both parties indicating
might be as high as $50,000.00. The
oral testimony of all parties suggests that the Tenants on multiple occasions advised the Landlord of the
need not to disturb the birds, including making excessive noise, lest she be
fined. The Landlord’s response to this
limitation appears to have
not been taken well, and became a source of tension between the parties.
 
23.  The Tenants allege that the result of this tension was
that the Landlord harassed them with an eye to having
them move out. The situation
caused them stress
and anxiety, and interfered with their reasonable
enjoyment of the residential complex.
 
24.  The Tenants submitted a large volume of material to
the Board, but even if I take a particularly
liberal view of the evidence
that was formally referenced as evidence, I have




 
difficulty seeing any conduct
of the Landlord prior to March 6, 2020, constituting vexatious conduct that she knew or ought to have known to have
been unwelcome. The Tenants noted a series of exchanges between
them and the Landlord relating
to her apprehension of damage to floors, and requiring that they
purchase protective mats. I cannot
see any part of the exchanges that would rise to the level of harassment, or
substantial interference with their reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit.
 
25.  The situation changes with a letter dated March 6,
2020, at which time the Landlord’s documented
communication clearly moves toward evicting the Tenants. The letter notes, among other things, some of the
Landlord’s objections to the lack of noise tolerance of the birds, and the lack
of disclosure of this sensitivity when the lease was entered into. The letter
includes with the following notice, which appears to be a precursor to
eviction:
 
The circumstances listed above
have left me with no alternative but to terminate your lease for rental
of the Dragonfly at 2257 Darling Road Clayton, ON. You will be
required to continue paying $800 per month for rental
+ your own hydro on a month
to month basis.
 
Should the conflicts continue, I will have no choice
but to ask you to leave.
 
26.  The nature of the Landlord’s objections may or may not
have been legitimate, but the unilateral termination of a residential tenancy
is improper within the statutory regime imposed by the Act. The proper course would have been for the
Landlord to have properly served a notice of termination under
the Act – for example an N5 alleging
the Tenants’ substantial interference with the reasonable enjoyment of
the residential complex for all usual purposes by the landlord.
 
27.  A second letter
followed on July 3, informing
Jarl that he must leave “by
end of season” and that she will discuss other options with Arne.
 
28.  July 5, 2020 sees the first instance of a police
report, with OPP Occurrence Report SP20145530.
At this time, Jarl Ketola
had contacted the OPP, the
report indicating that he “had dispute
with landlord over bird sanctuary on property” and “wanted police
aware of situation incase (sic) and birds harmed.”
 
29.  OPP Police Occurrence summary SP20221906 of September
24, 2020 also reports the aftermath of a verbal argument
that day between
the Landlord and Tenants. The report
summarized a statement by Jarl Ketola: “He advised that he has a lawyer and the
landlord has not gone through the proper channels to have them evicted, however
they do have a new place and are slowly moving into it.”
 
30.  The documentary evidence supports the Tenants’ general
allegations of a pattern of harassing behaviour by the Landlord, starting in March
6, 2020, with the Landlord seeking to compel them to vacate
the rental unit. By September 24,
2022, the Tenants had started to take steps to find another unit, but had not
vacated.




 
31.  I therefore find that a pattern of harassment has been
proven commencing March 6, 2020, and that the conduct substantially interfered
with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit from that point onward,
as supported by the
stresses and anxieties detailed in
their testimony.
 
October 1, 2020 entry
 
32.  It was uncontested by both Landlord
and Tenants that the Landlord
entered the rental unit on October 1, 2020. The Tenants’ position
is that it was without
permission. The Landlord relies on
what she claims to be a valid 24-hour
notice of entry,
and indicates that she
therefore did not need permission.
 
33.  The notice of entry was entered into evidence by the Landlord.
It is dated September 29, 2020, and the contents of the notice
read as follows: “As the owner of the Dragonfly cabin, I hereby give you
24-hour notice to enter the Dragonfly cabin for inspection and to determine
costs to fix damage and clean up if any. Pictures will be taken.”
 
34.  Subsection 27(3) of the Act mandates the contents of a
written notice of entry on 24 hours notice: “The written notice
under subsection (1) or (2) shall specify
the reason for entry, the day of entry and a time of
entry between the hours of 8 a.m. and 8 p.m.”
 
35.  Subsection 27(1) of the Act provides as follows:
 
A landlord
may enter a rental unit in accordance with written notice given to the tenant at
least 24 hours before the time of entry under the following circumstances:...
4.    
To carry out an inspection of the rental
unit, if,
i.   the inspection is for the purpose of
determining whether or not the rental unit is in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and complies with health,
safety, housing and maintenance standards, consistent with the landlord’s
obligations under subsection 20 (1) or section 161, and
ii.  
it is reasonable to carry out the inspection.
 
36.  I am prepared to accept that the Landlord’s reason for
entry could have been valid. However, in accordance with s.27(3) are conjunctive, a valid notice of entry must also state the date of entry, and also provide
a time of entry. Only one of these
requirements (valid reason) has been complied with.
 
37.  I therefore find that the Landlord entered the rental
unit illegally on October 1, 2020. I
also find that the conduct
was part of a course of behaviour
that had commenced
some months before, and was vexatious and known to be unwelcome. The entry itself constitutes part of an
ongoing harassment of the Tenants.
 
38.  The Tenants also claim that the locks were changed. The Landlord testified that she did not
change the locks at this time. As
noted below I believe the Landlord is conflating the events of October 1, 2020 and November 13, 2020, as the Tenants’
position is in my view supported by the contents of OPP
Police Occurrence Summary – SP20227404: “Spoke with parties – [redacted] to
return key to Ketola…landlord has locked him out illegally”




 
This contemporaneous record supports
the Tenants’ testimony
that the locks were changed and the Tenant had to seek
police intervention to get replacement keys.
 
39.  I find that the Landlord did change the locks on
October 1, 2020, although replacement keys were given,
perhaps grudgingly. I therefore find that, while
the locks were changed,
a replacement key was given, and the Landlord did not strictly breach her
requirement under section 24 of the Act to give a replacement key. Given my previous finding that this conduct
constituting illegal entry and harassment, I find the issue
of an illegal lockout
largely immaterial to any ultimate remedy considered.
 
40.  After these events,
an N12 Notice of Termination dated October 1, 2020 was served on the Tenants under s. 48 of the Act,
indicating that the Landlord’s father intended to occupy the rental unit. The termination date on the N12 was
November 30, 2020.
 
November 13, 2020 lockout
 
41.  The Tenants testified that, on November
13, 2020, they were locked
out of the rental unit and found that their possessions
that remained on site were placed in the carport. Possession of the rental unit
had been turned over to the Landlord’s father.
 
42.  The Tenants’ testimony to this end is supported by an
OPP Occurrence Summary CP20261054 introduced as evidence, which
reads as follows:
“Caller is being kicked out of
location caller had until the end of the month to move out. He has started
moving into another address
when he came tonight to collect some more items he found that his landlord ahs
(sic) taken all his stuff out of the house and moved them into the car port and
moved in [redacted].”
 
43.  The Landlord’s testimony was that the lock had been changed
but that a key was provided to the Tenants, when
requested.
 
44.  Section 24 of the Act says, “A landlord shall not alter the locking
system on a door giving entry to a rental unit or
residential complex or cause the locking system to be altered during the
tenant’s occupancy of the rental unit without giving the tenant replacement
keys.” Failure to abide by this
requirement constitutes an illegal lockout.
 
45.  I am not persuaded by
the Landlord’s account. The police occurrence report provides
a contemporaneous support for the Tenants’
testimony that a new occupant was placed in the rental unit, and all possessions
were removed from the unit. The
actions of the Landlord prematurely dispossessed the Tenants of their right of
possession. Returning the keys to an
empty unit would have been pointless.
 
46.  The Landlord testified that the locks were changed
just once, and the Tenants provided with replacement keys. The evidence
supports a conclusions that Landlord is conflating the events of November 13, 2020
with those of October 1, 2020, as it is clear from the police report of the
latter date that there was a change of locks and the Tenants were given a key
on that date.




 
47.  In the alternative, even if there were
no conflation of events and keys were in
fact given to the Tenants on November 13, 2020, the dispossession of the Tenants
from the rental
unit is in itself a substantial interference with their reasonable
enjoyment of the unit, and the unwelcome and vexatious nature of the premature termination
sustains a finding of harassment, separate and apart from any illegal lockout.
 
48.  Whichever is the case, at the core of the events on
November 13, 2020 is that the Landlord prematurely obtained
vacant possession of the rental
unit, and in a manner
that is inconsistent with the Act.
 
49.  The Landlord has attempted to argue that the unit was
abandoned by the Tenants prior the events on November 13, 2020. Proof of abandonment to justify both entry and placing
a new occupant in the unit rests with the Landlord, and I the Landlord has met this burden.
 
50.  Abandonment of a unit is a question of applying the
law in the Act to factual circumstances. I find that the Tenants still had possession of the rental
unit, as they still
had personal items in the unit, had not returned the keys and there is no
evidence that they advised the Landlord of having abandoned the unit.
 
51.  Finding in law that a unit is abandoned also requires
that the rent be in arrears. It was
uncontested that the October 2020 rent had been paid by the Tenants. The Landlord does not recall a November
2020 rent payment; the Tenants indicate that the payment was declined
by the Landlord. Therefore, I find that the Landlord
harassed the Tenants, entered the rental unit
illegally and altered the locking system on a door giving entry to the rental
unit or residential complex without giving the Tenants replacement keys,
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential complex by the Tenants.
 
Damages
 
52.  To secure their possessions after the final lockout,
the Tenants testified that they were required to purchase a trailer at a cost
of $2,500.00, as other storage options were not available on short notice.
I am unable to substantiate this claim, as the only proof of such
an acquisition provided as evidence is a receipt for $2,250.00 to Jarl Ketola
and transfer of ownership of a trailer dated September 1, 2020, more than two
months before the lockout of November 13, 2020. While such an expense might be allowable if the trailer were
clearly procured when there was no reasonable alternative storage available I
the
face of the Landlord’s breach of contract,
the documentation does not support
the
Tenants’ allegation that the trailer was purchased
as a
result of the Landlord’s breaches of the Act.
 
53.  The Tenants also claimed $960.00 in labour costs
during the move. No supporting
evidence of this expense was submitted, therefore I cannot award
any damages to this end.




 
54.  The Tenant also claims $2,000.00, alleging that the
transmission on his car failed as a result of having to carry the trailer
mentioned above, in an
overloaded state. Such loss is in my view too remote from the
Landlord’s breach of contract to be allowable, as it is not damage that flows directly
from the Landlord’s actions.
 
Abatement
 
55.  The Tenants seek an abatement
of 100% of rent paid for the duration of the tenancy.
As noted above, I do not believe that any harassment has been proven
prior to March 6, 2020, therefore the maximum period for which an abatement
would be from March 6, 2020 until the end of the tenancy.
 
56.  An abatement of 100%
would be appropriate only in circumstances where the rental unit is practically or effectively uninhabitable, which was not the case here
prior to the lockout of
November 13, 2020. Certainly, toward
the end of the tenancy, the Landlord’s conduct contains egregious activity of
lockouts and illegal entry, whereas earlier episodes of harassment might better
be described as a slow simmer. The
entry of October and lockout in November represent a substantial disruption in
the Tenants’ enjoyment of the property, while the earlier events represent some
disruption.
 
57.  Having regard to the differing levels of proven
Landlord conduct, an abatement in the range
of 25% for the rental periods
of March 2020 to November
2020 (nine months)
is appropriate. For the lawful
rent of $800, this amounts to $1,800.00.
 
Fine
 
58.  An administrative fine has been sought in the Tenants’
application. The Board’s Guideline 16, while not binding upon me, contains
a useful summary
of common principles
considered in applying fines:
 
An administrative fine is a
remedy to be used by the Board to encourage compliance with the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the "RTA"), and to deter landlords from engaging in similar activity
in the future. This remedy
is not normally imposed unless a landlord has shown a blatant disregard
for the RTA and other remedies will not provide adequate deterrence and
compliance.
 
59.  A fine is therefore a remedy aimed at deterrence, and must have regard
both to the deterrent effect of other remedies awarded in an
application and the nature of the Landlord’s conduct.
 
60.  I have elsewhere awarded a rent abatement, which I
believe serves as an adequate deterrent for this landlord and makes a fine unnecessary. Having regard to some of the
Landlord’s breaches, I accept that the Landlord genuinely, but mistakenly,
believed that the tenancy was
governed by principles of commercial leasing.
While such misunderstanding does not excuse liability under the Act, it
does act in mitigation of imposing a fine. No
fine is imposed.




 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord shall
pay to the Tenants a rent abatement of $1,800.00.
 
2.     The Landlord shall
also pay to the Tenants
$48.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
3.     The total amount
the Landlord owes is $1,848.00.
 
4.     The Landlord shall
pay the Tenants the full amount owing
by March 31, 2022.
 
5.     If the Landlord
does not pay the Tenants
the full amount
owing by March 31, 2022, the Tenant will owe interest. This will be
simple interest calculated from April 1, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
 
 
February 15, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Ian Speers
Vice Chair,
Landlord and Tenant
Board
 
Eastern-RO
255 Albert Street, 4th Floor
Ottawa ON K1P6A9
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

