Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-08
File number:	
EAT-90782-20

Citation:	Perlman v Holland, 2022 CanLII 86547 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js1g5>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 135
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
File Number: EAT-90782-20
 



In the matter
of:


3804, 25 SELBY
STREET TORONTO ON M4Y0E6


 




Between:


Ben Perlman


Tenant




 


and


 




 


Laura Holland
  Tanis Scherer


Landlords



 
Ben Perlman (the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that Tanis Scherer
and Laura Holland (the 'Landlords') have collected
or retained money illegally.
 
This application
was heard via video/teleconference on October 27, 2021. The Tenant and the Landlord’s Agent Laura Holland
attended the hearing.
Determinations:
 
1.     The Tenant alleges
that the Landlord
collected money in excess
of the amount allowed by the Act.
 
2.     For the reasons
below, I am not satisfied
that the Landlord
collected or retained
an illegal charge.
 
3.     The situation arose because of the existence of
“smart” sub-meters in the residential Complex and a third party ‘SUBMETER
UTILITY CARMA BILLING SERVICES INC’ collected
money from the Tenant for the electrical cost of distributing the heat and cold to the rental unit by operation of a
central boiler and chiller system.
 
4.     The charges pertain
to charges for utilities,
which are, and were, a separate
charge from the rent from the
beginning of the tenancy.
 
5.     The building comprises of a multi unit high rise
comprising of more than six rental units.
 
6.     The parties entered into a tenancy agreement in
December 2019, whereby the Tenant agreed to pay for their own electricity
charges to a third party, ‘SUBMETER UTILITY CARMA BILLING SERVICES INC’ based on “smart” sub-meters which were installed in the residential
complex.
 
7.     The tenancy agreement stipulated
Under Clause 6 – Services and Utilities




 
The Landlord is providing
the heat and cold through
a central boiler
and chiller system.
However, the Tenant must pay for the electrical cost of distributing the
heat and cold to the rental unit.
The Tenant shall set up an account with and pay the utility
provider, the Tenants’
portion of the utility costs.
 
8.     Under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’) parties are free to negotiate and put in leases any terms, provided they
do not conflict with the Act or is otherwise illegal. So were the Act does not say anything about issues Landlord(s) and Tenant(s) are free
to use written tenancy agreements to
allocate responsibilities for various items between the parties.
 
9.     Subsection 3 (1) of the Act provides
that the Act applies to all matters
with respect to rental
units in residential complexes despite any agreement or waiver to the contrary.
 
10.  Subsection 4(1) of the Act states that a provision
in a tenancy agreement that is
inconsistent with the Act or the regulations is void.
 
11.  The Tenant stated that he expected that his utility
costs would be based on the consumption and use of utilities in his rental unit, not apportioned to the consumption for the whole
residential complex.
 
12.  Section 138 of the Act states in part: - Apportionment of utility costs
138 (1) A landlord of a
building containing not more than six rental units who supplies a utility to
each of the rental units in the building
may, with the written consent
of the tenant, charge the tenant
a portion of the cost of the utility in accordance with the prescribed rules
if,
 
(a) 
the landlord provides
adequate notice to the tenant
in accordance with the prescribed rules; and
(b) 
the rent for the rental unit is reduced in accordance with the prescribed rules.
Not a service
138 (2) If a landlord charges a
tenant a portion of the cost of a utility in accordance with subsection (1), the utility shall not be considered a service that falls within
the definition of “rent” in subsection 2 (1).
 
13.  The evidence before me established that the Tenant
entered into a separate agreement with a third party with respect to electricity charges
for services which
they had not directly consumed. The third party
provider is not the Landlord’s agent. As a result, I am not satisfied that the
Landlord collected or retained an illegal charge.
 
14.  The Board has no jurisdiction to adjudicate issues
between a third party
and the Tenant with respect
to charges for utilities.
 
15.   This order contains
all of the reasons
for my decision within it. No further
reasons shall be issued.




 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The Tenant’s T1 application is dismissed.












February 8, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Randy Aulbrook
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
Eastern-RO
255 Albert Street, 4th Floor
Ottawa ON K1P6A9
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

