Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-01
File number:	
EAT-94233-21

Citation:	Volle v Setiawan, 2022 CanLII 86575 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js1g6>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 30
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: EAT-94233-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


2, 218
ARLINGTON AVENUE OTTAWA ON
  K1R5S9


 




Between:


Melissa Rouillard Volle


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Genevieve Setiawan
  Samantha Setiawan Vanessa Velkoff-woo


Landlords



 
 
 
Melissa Rouillard Volle (the
'Tenant') applied for an order determining that Genevieve Setiawan, Samantha
Setiawan and Vanessa Velkoff-woo (the 'Landlords') failed to meet the
Landlords' maintenance obligations under
the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') or failed
to comply with health,
safety, housing or maintenance standards.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on April 27, 2021.
The Tenant and the Landlords attended the hearing.
Determinations:
 
1.     The Tenant submitted that several repairs
are required to the rental
unit and the Landlord
refuses to make these necessary repairs. The Tenant provided picture evidence
and testified that the kitchen exhaust, ceiling storage, furnace filter, and
sink required maintenance. The Tenant also submitted that the ventilation and
soundproofing in the rental unit is poor. The Tenant sought a refund in the amount of $150.00 for products and the equipment that she purchased. The
Tenant only provided proof of purchase (receipt) of the humidifier.
 
2.    
The Landlords testified that the
Tenant complained of noise to By-Law officers twice about the downstairs tenant
and the By-Law officers concluded that everything was normal. The Landlords
submitted that they completed 90 per cent of the repairs requested by the Tenant since 2017 when she moved in the rental
unit. The Landlords take the position that they completed the repairs that they
felt was most important and critical for the Tenant. I acknowledge that the
Landlords made efforts to make most o the repairs requested by the Tenant; however
this does not mean that the repairs
outstanding should be ignored. The fact that many repairs were required suggests
that the rental unit needed a lot of maintenance to make it suitable.




 
3.    
The Tenant provided a video
showing how loud the kitchen exhaust is. The sound is abnormally loud for the
interior of a rental unit. The Tenant provided pictures of the storage area where minerals
are falling from the ceiling.
The Landlords testified
that they cannot guarantee
the air quality of the rental unit, because it is located close to the highway
and high traffic area that contains dust. I
am satisfied that the air quality in the rental unit needs improvement based on
the testimony of the parties at the hearing. Therefore, I find that the
Landlords failed to meet the Landlords' obligations under subsection 20(1) of
the Act to maintain the rental unit in a good state of repair.
 
4.    
The Landlords are in breach of
their maintenance obligations under subsection 20(1) of the Act with respect to
the following items: kitchen exhaust, ceiling of storage area (minerals
falling), and the furnace filter. I do not find it reasonable to ask the
Landlord to upgrade the sound proofing in the rental unit. The Landlord testified
that the Tenant had an opportunity to inspect the unit prior to moving in and
was aware of the quality of the sound proofing before accepting to reside in the rental
unit. Some rental
units have better sound proofing than others, however
I do not consider the soundproofing to be a major maintenance problem. As well, there was insufficient evidence
provided by the Tenant to make a fair determination about the quality of the
soundproofing in the rental unit.
 
5.     The Tenant complained to the Landlords about the air
quality of the unit due to her breathing problems. The Tenant told the
Landlords that she smells smoke inside her rental unit. The Landlords
reconfirmed with the neighbouring tenants that they are not smoking inside the
rental unit. I do not find that to be an adequate response to the Tenant’s
complaints of smoke odour in the rental unit. The Landlords must take further
actions to determine if the air quality is impacted by smoke or other particles
entering the Tenant’s rental unit. Furthermore, the Landlords can’t
simply rely on the statements made by neighbouring tenants
to ascertain if people are in fact smoking indoors. I disagree with the Landlords position that they cannot guarantee the air
quality in the rental unit. The air quality in the rental unit must be suitable
for living. The fact that the rental unit is located close to a high traffic
and highway area does not release the Landlords of their responsibility to
ensure that the rental unit has decent air quality.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlords shall pay to the Tenant a rent abatement of $56.48 for the humidifier purchased by the Tenant.
 
2.     The Landlords shall work on repairing the kitchen exhaust,
ceiling of storage
area (minerals falling), and maintenance of the furnace filter by March
1, 2022.
 
3.     If the Landlords
do not do the work by March 1, 2022, the Tenant is authorized to arrange
for the work to be done and may recover the cost of the work by deducting the
amount from the rent paid in the month(s) after
the work is done until there is no longer any money owing.
 
4.      The Landlords shall also take additional steps
to ensure that the air quality meet the
provincial health standards.




 
5.    
The Landlords shall also pay the Tenant $48.00
for the cost of filing
the application.
 
6.      
The total amount the Landlords owe the Tenant
is $104.48.
 
7.     The Landlords shall pay the Tenant the full amount
owing by February
12, 2022.
 
8.     If the Landlords do not pay the Tenant the full amount
owing by February 12, 2022 the Landlords will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from February
13, 2022 at 2.00% annually on
the outstanding balance.
 
9.    
If the Landlords does not pay the Tenant the full amount owing by February
12, 2022, the Tenant may recover this amount by
deducting $104.48 from the monthly rent.
 
10.  The Tenant has the right,
at any time, to collect
the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
11.  The Landlords are prohibited from charging a new tenant
an amount of rent in excess of the last lawful rent charged to this
Tenant until the Landlords have completed the following work ordered to be done
in paragraph 2 above.
 
12.  The Landlords are prohibited from giving a notice of rent increase
for the rental unit until the Landlords have completed the
work ordered to be done in paragraph 2.
 
13.  The Landlords are prohibited from taking any rent
increase for which a notice of rent increase
has been given, if the increase is not
taken before February 1, 2022, until the Landlords have completed the work
ordered to be done in paragraph 2 above.
 
 
 
 
February 1, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Eastern-RO
255 Albert
Street, 4th Floor Ottawa ON K1P6A9
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

