Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-07
File number:	
HOL-11605-21

Citation:	140 Main St Holdings Inc v Russell, 2022 CanLII 55209 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpzhd>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
 
File Number: HOL-11605-21
 
 
In the matter
of:      2502, 140 MAIN STREET W
HAMILTON ON L8P0B8
 




Between:                  140 Main St Holdings Inc c/o Quadreal
Residential Properties G.P. Inc


Landlord




 
 
and
 
Holly Russell                                                                                                                    Tenant
 
 
 
140 Main St Holdings Inc c/o Quadreal Residential
Properties G.P. Inc (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the
tenancy and evict Holly Russell (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential
complex has wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The
Landlord has also applied for an order requiring the Tenant to compensate the
Landlord for the damage.
 
The Landlord also applied for an order to terminate the
tenancy because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone the
Tenant permitted in the residential complex has substantially interfered with
the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord
or another tenant; because the Tenant or another occupant of the rental unit
has committed an illegal act or has carried out, or permitted someone to carry
out an illegal trade, business or occupation in the rental unit or the
residential complex involving the production of an illegal drug, the
trafficking in an illegal drug or the possession of an illegal drug for the
purposes of trafficking; and because
the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
seriously impaired the safety of any person. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant
remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by videoconference
on October 27, 2021.
 
Only the Landlord’s Agent, Vanessa Sullivan (‘VS’), the
Landlord's Legal Representative, Martin Zarnett, and the Landlord’s
witness, Detective Constable Chad Macavelia (‘DCCM’), attended the hearing. As of 10 a.m., the Tenant
was not present or represented at the hearing although properly served with
notice of this hearing by the Board.




 
Determinations:
 
1.    
On
June 2, 2021, DCCM attended the rental unit and executed a “controlled drugs
and substances” search warrant. DCCM and his team entered the unit after a
dynamic “no knock” entry warrant was executed by the emergency task force. This
means that the police entered the unit without warning to the Tenant and they
broke the door in the process of entering the unit.
 
2.    
The
police also executed a search warrant on a different rental unit in the same residential complex that was also being
rented by the Tenant (unit 1414). DCCM testified that the rental unit that is
the subject of this application and unit 1414 are connected to each other: both
units were used by the Tenant to conduct her illegal cannabis business operation.
 
3.    
DCCM
testified that unit 1414 did not look like it was used for residential
purposes. Rather, it seems that the Tenant used
unit 1414 as a staging area for
drivers of her illegal cannabis dispensary. The police found and seized large
quantities of cannabis from the rental unit that is the subject of this
application.
 
4.    
The
Tenant was arrested and charged with offences under the Cannabis Act and
Controlled Drugs and Substances Act including possession and possession
for the purpose of trafficking. The police also seized the rental unit pursuant to the Cannabis Act.
 
5.    
Based
on the evidence before me, I am satisfied that the Tenant and the occupant
committed an illegal act in the residential complex that affects the nature of
the complex. The tenancy will be terminated on this basis.
 
6.    
I have
considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection
83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that
it would be unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1)
of the Act. The Landlord is unaware of any circumstances that would justify
refusing or delaying eviction.
 
7.    
As the
tenancy is terminated, there is no need to make findings regarding whether the
Tenant’s behaviour substantially interfered with the Landlord’s lawful right,
privilege, or interest or whether the Tenant seriously impaired the safety of
another person. The only remaining issue before
me is the Landlord’s request
for compensation pursuant
to section 89 of the Act.
 
8.    
The
Landlord has incurred costs of $1,011.35 to replace the damaged rental unit
door with a temporary door. The Landlord provided an estimate for $2,254.35 to
replace the temporary door with a permanent fire rated door. The Landlord
explains that the temporary door was the only available door at the time. Once
the release the rental unit back to the Landlord, they intend to replace the temporary door with a permanent fire




 
rated door. Accordingly, the Landlord requests and order for
$3,265.70 representing the total costs to replace the damaged door.
 
9.    
Subsection 89(1) of
the Act says “a landlord may apply to the
Board for an order requiring a
tenant to pay reasonable costs that the landlord has incurred or will incur for
the repair of or, where repairing is not reasonable, the replacement of damaged
property, if the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person
whom the tenant permits in the residential complex wilfully or negligently
causes undue damage to the rental unit or the residential complex and the
tenant is in possession of the rental unit.” [Emphasis added]
 
10. 
Applying a strict, narrow interpretation of
section 89 leads me to conclude that the Tenant is not responsible for the
damage to the door. The Tenant did not personally cause the damage to the door.
The police caused the damage and they were not permitted in the residential
complex by the Tenant.
 
11. 
However,
in my view, a strict and narrow interpretation of section 89 leads to an unjust
result since the Landlord would have to bear the cost of repairing the door
when it is the illegal acts occurring in the Tenant’s unit with her knowledge
that resulted in the damage.
 
12. 
There
is sufficient connection and causation between the conduct of the Tenant in
committing an illegal act in the rental unit resulting in the damage to the
door. The Tenant’s conduct and participation in the illegal
activity occurring in the rental
unit was the indirect cause of the damage.
 
13. 
Therefore,
I am satisfied that the Tenant’s conduct negligently caused undue damage to the
rental unit door.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The
tenancy between the Landlord and the
Tenant is terminated, as of January 12, 2022. The Tenant must move
out of the rental unit on or before January 12, 2022.
 
2.    
The
Tenant shall pay to the Landlord $3,265.70, which represents the reasonable
costs of repairing the damaged door.
 
3.    
The
Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord $96.99 per day for
compensation for the use of the unit
from January 8, 2022 to the date the Tenant moves out of the unit.
 
4.     The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing the application.




 
5.    
If the
Tenant does not pay the Landlord the full amount owing on or before January 12,
2022, the Tenant will start to owe interest.
This will be simple interest calculated from January 13, 2022 at 2.00%
annually on the balance outstanding.
 
6.    
If the
unit is not vacated on or before January 12, 2022, then starting January 13,
2022, the Landlord may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office
(Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced.
 
7.    
Upon receipt of this
order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant
possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after January 13, 2022. The
Sheriff is requested to expedite the enforcement of this order.
 
 
 
January 7, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Khalid Akram
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Head Office
777 Bay Street, 12th Floor
Toronto Ontario M5G2E5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires
on July 13, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this date
with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where
the rental unit is located.

