Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-14
File number:	
HOL-11966-21-RV

Citation:	Bumra v Newman, 2022 CanLII 106748 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jszw0>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 21.2 of the
Statutory Powers
Procedure Act
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: HOL-11966-21-RV
 
 



In the matter
of:


579, 365-5
ALBERT STREET WATERLOO ON
  N2L0G7


 




Between:


Kiran Kaur
Bumra


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Nicholas
Andrew Newman Nicole Jean
  Mac Millan


Tenants



 
 
Review Order
 
Kiran Kaur Bumra (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Nicole Jean Mac Millan and Nicholas Andrew
Newman (the 'Tenants') because
the Tenants did not pay the rent that the Tenants owe.
 
This application was resolved by order HOL-11966-21 issued on January
14, 2022. On February 4, 2022,
the Tenants requested a review of the order.
A preliminary review of the review
request was completed without a hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     To put this request for review in context, the
Landlord has a tenancy agreement with Accomud8 and the Tenants are subletters
of the Landlord. It was undisputed that the parties entered into a subtenancy
agreement ending August 31, 2021 and that the Tenants had not vacated
the rental unit by December
15, 2021, the date of the hearing.
 
2.     The request to review asserts
both that the Tenants were not reasonably able to participate
in the proceeding and that the order contains a serious error.
 
3.     Board Interpretation Guideline 8, Review of an
Order, states that the purpose of the review process is not to provide
parties with an opportunity of presenting a better or different case than they
did at first instance and that the Board will only exercise its discretion to grant a review when it is satisfied that the order contains a serious error,
a serious error occurred in the proceeding or the requestor was not
reasonably able to participate in the proceeding.




 
4.    
With respect to the Tenants’ claim
that they were not reasonably able to participate, the Tenant who requested the
review attended and participated in the hearing. The request to review itself does not articulate any reasons why the Tenant
is of the view that she was
not provided a fulsome opportunity to participate, or why her opportunity to know the case
to be met and respond was inadequate. In the absences of such information,
there is no basis to conclude
that a review hearing should be granted on this basis and this aspect
of the Tenants’ request to review is dismissed.
 
5.    
With respect to the Tenants’ claim of a serious error,
Board Interpretation Guideline
8 states that serious error includes the following:
 
•        
An error of jurisdiction. For example the order relies on the wrong section
of the RTA or exceeds the LTB's powers. This issue need not have been
raised in the original hearing;
 
•        
A
procedural error which raises issues
of natural justice;
 
•        
An unreasonable finding of fact on a material
issue which would
potentially change the result
of the order;
 
•        
New evidence which was unavailable at the time of the hearing and which is potentially determinative of one or
more central issues in dispute;
 
•        
An error in law. The LTB will
not exercise its discretion to review an order interpreting the RTA unless the
interpretation conflicts with a binding decision of the Courts or is clearly
wrong and unreasonable; and ,
 
•        
An unreasonable exercise of discretion which results in an order outside the usual range of remedies
or results and where there are no reasons explaining the result.
 
6.    
In the present case, the Tenants’
request to review
does not identify
a potentially serious error.
 
7.    
The issue on application was
whether the Tenants’ arrears warranted the termination of their tenancy.
The hearing Member correctly identified and applied section
99 of the Act, which states:
 
The following provisions apply,
with necessary modifications, with respect to a
tenant who has sublet a rental unit, as if the tenant were the landlord and the
subtenant were the tenant:
 
1.    
Sections 59 to 69, 87, 89 and 148.
 
2.    
The provisions of this Act that relate to applications to the Board under
sections 69, 87, 89 and 148.
 
Section 59 of the Act is the
provision which authorizes landlords to give notices of termination for non-payment of rent, section
69 of the Act is the provision
that authorizes




 
landlords to apply to the Board
for an order terminating a tenancy and evicting a tenant if a notice of
termination has been given and section 87 of the Act is the provision that
authorizes landlords to apply to the Board
for an order requiring
tenants or former tenants to
pay arrears of rent.
 
8.    
The request for review raises
issues that are immaterial and that could not have changed the result of the order.
For example, the Tenants assert
that the Landlord
has no intention of moving back into the rental unit and that Accomud8
was willing to do a lease takeover but is now refusing. Even if I accept these
facts as being true for the purpose of assessing
this request to review, the Tenants have had no right to occupy the rental unit
since the subtenancy ended on August 23, 2021 pursuant to subsection 97(5) of
the Act. In these circumstances, whether or not the Landlord intends to move
back into the rental unit has no bearing on the question of whether or not the
Tenants’ arrears warranted termination of the tenancy. In circumstances where
there can be no “lease takeover” or assignment without the consent of both the
Landlord and Accomud8, whether or not Accomu8 would consent to such an
assignment also has no bearing on the question of whether or not the Tenants’
arrears warranted termination of the tenancy.
 
9.     For the sake of completeness, even if I interpret the
Tenants’ request to review as asserting that the hearing Members’ failure to
consider the facts asserted on the request to review resulted in an
unreasonable exercise of discretion, my conclusion is that there is no arguable basis for this claim. The Tenants’ request to review
does not challenge the hearing Member’s findings that the Tenants made no
payments after the Landlord filed the application, that there were significant arrears,
that the Landlord
presented a payment plan for the arrears to the
Tenants and that Tenants’ refusal to vacate the rental unit at the end of the
subtenancy and the Tenants’ refusal to pay any rent caused prejudice to the
Landlord that outweighed any prejudice to the Tenants. In these circumstances,
the hearing Member’s conclusion was within the range of expected outcomes.
 
10.  For the reasons
expressed above, I am not satisfied that there is a serious
error in the order or that a serious error
occurred in the proceedings.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The request to review
order HOL-11966-21 issued
on January 14, 2022 is denied. The order is confirmed and remains
unchanged.
 
 




February 14, 2022 Date Issued
Head Office
777 Bay Street, 12th Floor
Toronto Ontario M5G2E5



 
 
Douglas Wilkins
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board




 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

