Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-07
File number:	
HOL-10606-21

Citation:	Martelli v Smith, 2022 CanLII 55199 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpzh6>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: HOL-10606-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


176 YELLOWCRESS WAY ORLEANS ON K4A1C4


 




Between:


Enzo Martelli Claudia Martelli


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Kyla Alexandra Smith
Steven
Mark Joseph Moyneur


Tenants



 
 
 
Enzo Martelli
and Claudia Martelli (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate the
tenancy and evict Steven Mark Joseph Moyneur and Kyla Alexandra Smith
(the 'Tenants') because they, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone they permitted in the residential
complex have wilfully or negligently caused undue damage
to the premises. The Landlords has also applied
for an order requiring the Tenants to compensate the Landlords for the
damage.
 
This application was heard
by videoconference on December 21, 2021 at 3:54 PM. The Landlord, Claudia Martelli, and
the Tenants attended the hearing.
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s
application is based on an N5 Notice of Termination given under section 62 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the “Act”)
on April 30, 2021 with a termination date of May 20, 2021,
alleging that the Tenants another occupant of the rental unit or someone they
permitted in the residential complex have wilfully or negligently caused undue
damage to the premises.
 
2.    
The L2 application was filed with the Board on May 19, 2021, and included
a claim under section 89 for the reasonable costs
of repair or replacement that the
Landlord has or will incur in the amount of $9,920.68 for undue damage to the
rental unit caused by the Tenants.
 
3.    
The tenancy
terminated on May 26, 2021 when the Tenants returned
vacant possession of the
rental unit to the Landlords. The
part of the application seeking eviction is therefore moot, and the Landlords
claim for compensation is the sole matter before the me for adjudication.




 
4.    
The Landlord’s claims
for compensation raised in the application relate to three areas: damage to the walls
through (among other
things) the installation of unauthorized fixtures which required repair; damage to
carpeting partly caused by the Tenants’ pets, requiring that some of the
carpeting be replaced; and damage to the hardwood flooring which required
replacement.
 
5.    
The Landlords submitted
photographic evidence of the damage. The
Tenants were the first occupants of the rental
unit, which was newly built
when the tenancy
commenced in 2017. I therefore find that the damage was caused
by the Tenants – a point which they did not substantively contest. I also find, upon review of the
photographs submitted by the Landlords that the damage was undue, as it is well
beyond normal wear-and-tear.
 
6.    
The Landlord submitted
two invoices and one estimate in relation to the replacement and repair. An invoice for $1,560.69 covered
the repair to the
walls for damage caused by the
Tenants. A separate invoice for
$2,900.00 covered the replacement carpeting.
I am satisfied that the Landlords have incurred these expenses.
 
7.    
The Landlords
have not yet had the opportunity to replace the hardwood, given supply
chain challenges, but an estimate for the flooring was presented in the amount
of
$4,738.99. While the hardwood has not yet been
replaced, I am satisfied that the Landlords intend to replace it, and therefore
that it is a cost that the Landlords will incur.
 
8.    
The Tenants
did not substantively challenge the damage, but Mr. Moyneur
did challenge the amount
claimed. He did not substantively challenge the bona fides of the invoices
or estimates, but instead noted that he had offered to complete the
repairs himself, which might have resulted in a lesser expense.
 
9.    
When the claim is for damages
alone, under section
89 of the Act, I am
not convinced
that a landlord has an obligation to accept a tenant’s offer to repair damaged property,
as imposing such an obligation on the landlord would leave an open
question of the workmanship of the repair. Based
on the aggregate of the evidence before me, I am satisfied that the Landlord
acted reasonably in resorting to outside contractors.
 
10.  Mr. Moyneur also raised concerns about
whether the replacement of the carpeting was necessary, or necessary to the
extent done by the Landlords. He noted that the
extent of the carpeting replaced
extended beyond just the damaged
area. The Landlords indicated that this repair was based on expert advise that a
lesser repair would have resulted in seams that would have made cleaning
difficult. Likewise, Mr. Moyneur
questioned whether the hardwood could have been sanded and stained instead of
replaced. The Landlords testified
that this venue was explored with repair experts, and ultimately discarded as
the colour matching would have been impossible. I find on both accounts that
the Landlord reasonably relied on expert advice, and that
the replacement was in the circumstances reasonable. Reasonableness is itself
a contextual measure.
I am satisfied that the motives of the Landlords included
maintaining the appearance of the rental unit, which I consider contextually
reasonable in a relatively new rental unit.




 
11.  Mr. Moyneur also questioned whether the
damage should be considered normal wear and tear. While some allocation can at times be given to normal wear and
tear and the amount of a damage award correspondingly reduced, I note that
considerations in cases of this sort look at the age of the building and the
duration of the tenancy: where there has been a lengthy tenancy on an older
building, the award to the landlord may be diminished.1 In the current
instance, the rental unit occupied by the Tenant was new at the commencement of
the tenancy. After a four-year
tenancy, I believe a landlord would not expect that normal wear and tear would require
extensive replacement of carpeting or hardwood. While conceptually some amount might be attributed to
appreciation, in my view any such amount would be nominal. Given the length of time for the tenancy,
and that no amount for depreciation was proposed by the Tenants, I have
therefore not allowed any amount for it.
 
12.  The Landlord is therefore entitled to
$9,199.68, based on the estimates and invoices detailed above, as the reasonable cost to repair or replace
property unduly damaged
by the Tenants, which is slightly below the amount based on earlier
estimates that was claimed on the L2 application.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Tenants
shall pay to the Landlords
$9,199.68, which represents the reasonable costs of repairing the damage and
replacing the damaged property.
 
2.    
The Tenants
shall also pay to the Landlords $186.00
for the cost of filing
the application.
 
3.    
If the Tenants do not pay the Landlords the
full amount owing on or before January 18, 2022, they will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from January 19, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
balance outstanding.
 
 
January 7, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Ian Speers
Vice Chair, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Head Office
777 Bay Street, 12th Floor
Toronto Ontario M5G2E5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 












1 See for example
Balmoral Estates v. McDermid, [1997] OJ No. 801 (Ont Gen Div)

