Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-25
File number:	
HOL-08882-20

Citation:	Chen v Ajufo, 2022 CanLII 127331 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jv075>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: HOL-08882-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


21 MANTELLO DRIVE NORTH YORK ON M3J0H6


 




Between:


Wilson W. Chen


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Ijeoma Ajufo
Imeokharia Destiny Ighodalo Michael Okechukwu Ajufo Nwanze
  Somawina Dominic


Tenants



 
 
Wilson W. Chen (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict Michael Okechukwu Ajufo, Nwanze Somawina
Dominic, Imeokharia Destiny Ighodalo and Ijeoma Ajufo (the 'Tenants').
 
This matter was heard by video conference on February 7, 2022. It first came up for a hearing before a different Member on June
24, 2021, but was adjourned.
The Landlord and the Tenants attended
the hearing. The Landlord was represented by Stephanie Anderson and the Tenants
were represented by Richard Cassidy.
 
I heard evidence from the Landlord
and Mr. Ajufo.
 
 
Determinations:
 
Amendment of the Applications
 
1.     The parties agree that Imeokharia Destiny Ighodalo and
Nwanze Somawina Dominicare not tenants within the meaning
of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the 'Act') and that
the applications should be amended to remove them as tenants.
 
The Applications
 
2.     This is: (a) an L2 application based on an N5, an N6, an N7, and N8 notice; and (b) an L2
application based on an N12 notice.
 
N5 and N7 Notices




 
3.    
There was only one (voidable) N5 served by the Landlord
on September 25, 2020. It had a termination date of October 23, 2020
and was based on allegations that the Tenants have damaged the rental unit. The entire description of the basis for
the N5 is:
 
The tenants have
damaged the unit, this damage is beyond simple wear and tear. Some examples of
damage to the unit are; damage to the driveway, drywall damage, the carpet
throughout the home, damage to the doors inside the home as locks were added to the doors without permission, damage in the
kitchen including to the stove, the staircase, washing machine and dryer have
been damaged to the point that they either no longer work or do not work
properly due to over use of the machines in a manner that they are not designed
to be used for and other damage. A professional attended the property to
inspect (as best as possible) and produced a report. There is also a report for
the laundry machines. There is a possibility that the professional will need to
inspect again as the professional was not able to inspect each room and/or
around the furniture and belongings for the tenant(s).
4.    
The N5 is invalid
insofar as it does not satisfy the requirements of subsection 43(2) of the Act, which provides:
 
43
(2) If the notice is given by a landlord, it shall also set out the reasons
and details respecting the
termination and inform the tenant that,…
 
5.    
The specific
provisions of the Act pursuant to which an N5 notice is given also require that the notice set out the grounds for the termination. Section 62, for example, provides, in part:
 
62 (1) A landlord may
give a tenant notice of termination of the tenancy if the tenant, another occupant
of the rental unit or a person
whom the tenant
permits in the residential
complex wilfully or negligently causes undue damage to the rental unit or the
residential complex. 2006, c. 17, s.
62 (1).
 
(2) A notice of termination under this section
shall,
 
(a)    
provide a termination date not earlier
than the 20th day after
the notice is given;
(b)    
set out the grounds
for termination; and…..
 
6.     In
Ball v Metro
Capital Management Inc. [[2002] OJ No 5931 (Div Crt)]1,
the Divisional Court
considered what is now subsection 43(2) and found that the
purpose of requiring that a
notice of termination set out reasons and details was to allow a tenant to:
 
(a)    
be in a position
to know the case that he or she must meet;
 
 












1 At the Board,
this case is commonly referred
to as ‘Ball v. Metro Capital
Management Inc.’. The formal citation
for the case is, however, ‘Metro Capital Management Inc. (Re)’.




 
(b)    
decide whether to dispute
the allegations made by the landlord before
the Board; and
 
(c)      in
the case of a voidable
notice, stop the conduct or activity, or correct the omission
to void the notice and preserve the tenancy
 
7.     The Divisional Court found that the particulars that
should be included in a notice of termination are the ‘dates and times of the
alleged offensive conduct, together with a detailed description of the alleged
conduct engaged in by the tenant.’ While
specific dates and times are not always required to satisfy the requirements of
subsection 43(2), the ‘reasons and details’ in a notice must be sufficiently detailed
to satisfy the purposes of the requirement that they be provided
as set out in Ball v Metro Capital.
 
8.     In this case, the Landlord’s N5 does not, in my view,
provide the Tenants with sufficient details
with respect to the allegations made by the Landlord to satisfy the requirements of subsection 43(2). The reference, for
example, to ‘some examples’ and ‘including’ make
it impossible for the Tenants to know exactly what they were required to do to
void the notice to preserve the tenancy.
 
9.     The N7 was served on September 25, 2020 and had a
termination date of October 14, 2020. It was based on the same allegations and the
N5 as well as the assertion that the
rental unit was being used in a way that is inconsistent with its use as
residential premises.
 
10. 
The specific
allegations of ‘inconsistent use’ are not set out on the portion of the
Schedule to the N7. This is not in accordance with subsection 43(2) or subsection 63(2), which requires that a notice of termination delivered
based on allegations of inconsistent use set out the grounds for termination.
 
11. 
Having determined
that the N7 does not satisfy the requirements of subsection 43(2), I need to address the fact that it is based on exactly the same allegations as the voidable N5 and decline to do so.
N6 Notice
 
12. 
The N6 notice was
served on September 25, 2020, and had a termination date of October 23, 2020. It asserted that the Tenants
committed an illegal
act or were carrying on an illegal business at the
residential complex.
 
13. 
The N6 cannot be the basis for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenants.
 
14. 
The N6 is based
on allegations that the Tenants
smoke cannabis in the rental
unit. Smoking cannabis is not, however, an illegal act.




 
15. 
There is no details
in the N6 with respect
to what illegal
business the Landlords assert is being
carried at the residential complex. In
the absence of details with respect to the illegal business that the Landlord
asserts the Tenants are carrying on, the N6 does not satisfy the requirements
of subsections 43(2) or 61(2) of the Act. Subsection
61(2) requires that a notice of termination based on allegations that the
tenant has committed an illegal act or carried on an illegal business set out
the grounds for termination.
N8 Notice
 
16. 
The N8 was served
on August 13, 2020, and had a termination date of
October 31, 2020. It was based on allegations that the Tenants were
persistently late in paying rent. The
Landlord provided a schedule of what he asserts are the late rent payments by
the Tenant.
 
17.  The Tenants admit
that the information in the Landlord’s N8 with respect
to the payment of rent by them is accurate. The Landlord agrees that since the N8 was served, the Tenants
have paid their rent in full and on time.
 
18.  I find that the Tenants have persistently failed to
pay the rent on the date it was due. I
have, however, considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with
subsection 83(2) of the Act, and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief from eviction
subject to the condition that the Tenants pay their rent in full and on time
for the next 12 months as set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a)
and 204(1) of the Act. The fact that the Tenants have been
consistently paying their rent in full and on time makes, in my view, it unfair to evict the Tenants
based on an isolated period of late payments.
 
N12 Notice
 
19.  The N12 notice was served
on August 13, 2020
and had a termination date of October 31, 2020. It asserted that the Landlord intended to move into the rental
unit.
 
20.  The Landlord filed a declaration as required by the
Act. There was, however, an issue
with the compensation that the Act required
that the Landlord
provide to the Tenants and I am, as a result, not able to make
an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenants.
 
21.  Sections 48.1 and 55.1 of the Act require that a landlord
who wishes to retake possession of a rental unit for his or her
own use provide the tenant with compensation equal to one month of rent prior
to the termination date in the N12 notice served by the landlord. That compensation can be provided by: (a)
the landlord paying to the tenant an amount equal to one month of rent; or (b) the landlord waiving one month of
rent for a period prior to the
termination date, provided that the landlord clearly advising the tenant rent
is being waived.
 
22.  It is a landlord’s obligation to provide evidence that
the required compensation was provided. That
is generally not an issue in the sense that the parties can agree as to whether compensation was provided and, if so, how and when it was provided. In this




 
case, the Tenants dispute
that they received
compensation prior to the termination date in the N12 and the Landlord cannot establish that the
Tenants were provided with the required compensation prior to the termination
date in the N12 notice.
 
23.  The Landlord asserts that he provided the Tenant with
compensation by returning rent paid by the Tenant via e-transfer, but the
evidence appears to be that this did not take place until after the termination
date in the N12. Mr. Ajufo swore that this was the case and that what was returned by rent for November of 2020. The Landlord was unsure as to
when the e-transfer was triggered
and was unable to produce banking
records. I find that the Landlord has
not established on the balance of probabilities that he provided the Tenants
with compensation as required by the Act and that it is more likely than not
that the e-transfer was ‘sent’ to the Tenants after October 31, 2020. As result, I cannot make an order
terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenants based on the N12 notice.
 
24.  The Tenants admit that they are holding
an amount equal to one month of rent, being
the compensation that the Landlord provided to them in connection with
the N12, albeit after the termination date.
 
25.  Pursuant to section 73.1 of
the Act, the Board may order
the return of compensation paid to a tenant if it refuses to grant an
eviction order based on the fact that the landlord requires the rental unit, but compensation has been
provided to the tenant. I was prepared to make such an order. However, the Landlord indicated that he intends to immediately
serve another N12. The parties agreed
that, rather than ‘round tripping’ the $1,086.00, the compensation required
in connection with the new N12 will be provided, in part, by way of the forgiveness of the obligation to
repay the $1,086.00 being held by the Tenants.
As a result, the Landlord will, in connection with that new N12, be
required to pay to the Tenants only the difference between the $1,086.00 owing
by the Tenants to the Landlord and the current monthly rent.
 
Filing Fee
 
26.  While the Landlord
has not been entirely successful on these applications I believe, in the
circumstances, that it is appropriate that the Tenants compensate the Landlord
for the filing fee that he paid.
.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
Amendment to Applications
 
1.     The applications are amended to remove Imeokharia Destiny Ighodalo and Nwanze
Somawina Dominicare as tenants.
 
N5, N6, N7 and N12 Notices
 
2.     The Landlord’s L2 application as it relates
to the N5, N6, N7 and N12 notices is dismissed.




 
N8—Persistently
Late
 
3.     The Tenants shall pay to the Landlord
the full monthly
rent as and when due for the 12
months beginning March 1, 2022.
 
4.     If the Tenant fails to make any one of the payments in
accordance with paragraph 3 of this order the Landlord may, without notice
to the Tenants, apply to the
Board pursuant to section 78 of the Act for an order
terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenants
 
Filing Fee
 
5.     The Tenants shall pay to the Landlord $186.00, which
is the filing fee paid by the Landlord. If
the Tenants do not pay the Landlord the full amount owing on or before March 2, 2022, they will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from March 3, 2022
at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
 
February 25, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      
 
Head Office
777 Bay Street, 12th Floor
Toronto Ontario M5G2E5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section
81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires
on September 3, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this
date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial
jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.

