Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-18
File number:	
HOL-11153-21

Citation:	Ontario Aboriginal Housing v Rae, 2022 CanLII 106750 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jszvp>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
File Number: HOL-11153-21
 



In the matter
of:


103, 24 DUKE STREET DRYDEN ON P8N0A3


 




Between:


Ontario Aboriginal Housing


Landlord




 


and


 




 


Emma Rae Martin Payeur


Tenants



 
Ontario Aboriginal Housing (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
Martin Payeur and Emma Rae (the 'Tenants') because the Tenants, or another
occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenants permitted in the residential
complex have substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful
right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant.
This application was heard via video/teleconference on October
7, 2021.
Only the Landlord’s Agent Angela Parenteau
attended the hearing.
As of 11:36 a.m., the Tenants
were not present or represented at the hearing although properly served with
notice of this hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The application filed by the Landlord
is based upon N5 notices of termination given to the Tenants that alleges that the Tenants
have on multiple occasions been smoking in the rental unit and/or residential
complex in contravention to the terms agreed upon in the tenancy agreement that
the building is a non-smoking building.
 
2.    
The Landlord takes the position that the Tenant’s
behaviour has resulted in complaints
being received from other Residents/Tenants of the residential complex.
 
3.     On March 26, 2021
the Landlord gave the Tenants
a first N5 notice alleging
their frequent smoking in the
residential complex is in breach of the Tenant’s tenancy agreement (TA) with
the Landlord.
 
4.     A copy of the tenancy
agreement entered into between the Landlord and the Tenants
on December 1, 2019 was submitted.
Under Clause 8 of the TA it clearly states (No Smoking) and that the Tenants,
guests or any other person will not be permitted to
smoke inside a unit. Violation of this agreement will result in immediate
eviction…




 
5.    
Subsection 64(1) of the Residential Tenancies
Act states:
“A landlord may give a tenant
notice of termination of the tenancy if the conduct of the tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or a person permitted in the residential complex by
the tenant substantially interferes with the lawful
right, privilege or interest
of the landlord or another
tenant.”
 
6.     In a case such as this the onus rests with the
Landlord to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that the conduct
of the Tenants and or a guest of the Tenant(s) substantially interferes with a lawful right, privilege or
interest of the Landlord and the other tenant(s).
 
7.     Section 64(3) of the Residential Tenancies Act 2006, (the ‘Act’) provides that the type of
N5 Notice served by the Landlord is void if the Tenants, within seven (7) days
after receiving the notice
stops the activity
or corrects the conduct/behaviour. In this case, the
N5 was served on March 26, 2021, which means the seven (7) day voiding period
ran from March 27, 2021 to April 4, 2021.
 
8.     The Landlord provided
no documentary evidence to support that the Tenants did not void the first N5 notice within the seven
(7) days voiding period.
 
9.     Therefore, I find the Tenants
voided the first N5 notice.
 
10.  Pursuant to section 68 of the Act, before serving a
second N5 notice of termination the Landlord must have previously been given a
valid first notice of termination with an opportunity to void the notice
within 7 days of it being given. It is only if this first notice is given and the conduct
resumes or a situation
arises that constitutes grounds for a notice
of termination within six months after the first notice was given that a
non-voidable N5 notice can be served.
 
11.  On June 23, 2021, employees of the Landlord observed
one of the Tenants smoking ‘close’ to the entrance doors to the residential complex
and on June 26, 2021 the smell of
smoke was detected outside the Tenant’s rental unit.
 
12.  The Landlord subsequently gave the second N5 notice on
June 30, 2021 that the Tenant’s conduct resumed
along with other behaviour situations that constitutes grounds for a notice of termination within
six months after the first notice was given that a non- voidable N5 notice can
be served.
 
13.  Subsection 64(1) makes it clear
that the Landlord’s onus includes establishing that the stated
interference rises to the level of “substantial”.
 
14.  The Tenants did not attend the hearing
to make submissions relating to the
disturbance complaints lodged by other Tenants from the residential complex.
 
15.  I was satisfied that the Landlord
provided the Tenant
with an opportunity to void the first
notice of termination and to stop the behaviour that interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or
another tenant.




 
16.  The issue in this case is that the Landlord
provided no substantive documentary evidence with the application to support the Tenants conduct
and the stated interference rose to
the level of “substantial”.
 
17.  Eviction is a remedy
of last resort.
 
18.  After having considered all of the disclosed
circumstances in accordance with
subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'),
I find that it would
not be unfair to grant
relief from eviction subject to the
condition(s) set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1)
of the Act.
 
19.  The order contains
all the reasons for the decisions within
the order. No other reasons will be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     Effective immediately and for the duration of the tenancy,
the Tenants shall refrain from smoking cigarettes or other like
products in the rental unit and common areas of the residential complex and
will not permit smoke or smoke like odor from any source to emanate from the
rental unit that rises to the level of substantially interference with the
reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex by other tenants or interferes
with the lawful rights, privilege or interests of the Landlord.
 
2.    
If the Tenants do not correct their behaviour and fail to comply
with paragraph 1 above,
and should smoke or smoke like odor from any source emanate from the Tenant’s
unit that rises to the level of substantial interference, the Landlord may
apply to the Board under section 78 of the Act, within 30 days of the breach
without notice to the Tenants, for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
the Tenants.
 
 
February 18, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Randy Aulbrook
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Head Office
777 Bay Street, 12th Floor
Toronto Ontario M5G2E5
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

