Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-18
File number:	
HOL-12183-21

Citation:	Gingrich v Ngo, 2022 CanLII 106660 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jszw7>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: HOL-12183-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


18D, 388
OLD HURON ROAD KITCHENER ON N2R0J5


 




Between:


Mo Lan Gingrich


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Liem Ngo


Tenant



 
 
 
Mo Lan
Gingrich (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Liem Ngo (the 'Tenant') because the
Tenant or another occupant of the rental unit has committed an illegal act or
has carried out, or permitted someone to carry out an illegal trade, business
or occupation in the rental
unit or the residential complex
involving the production of an illegal
drug, the trafficking in an illegal drug or the
possession of an illegal drug for the purposes of trafficking. The Landlord
also applied for compensation because
the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the
residential complex has wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the
premises.
 
This application was heard via
videoconference on January 24, 2022. The Landlord, the Tenant,
and the Tenant’s legal representative B. Lue Sang attended the hearing.
 
PRELIMINARY ISSUE:
 
1.    
The initial amount sought by the
Landlord in the L2 Application was $20,000.00. On January 10, 2022,
the Landlord amended
the application to $61,463.65
(Att#1 Request to Amend L2 Application). The Landlord was informed of the Board’s
monetary jurisdiction of
$35,000.00 and her option
to withdraw and proceed through
the Ontario Superior
Court for the full amount. The
Landlord confirmed her intent to proceed with her claim before the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
2.     The Landlord served an N6 Notice of Termination on the
Tenant on September 21, 2021. The Tenant vacated the unit on September 27,
2021. As such, the issue of termination is moot. The only issue remaining is
damages pursuant to section 89 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’).
 
3.     The damages claim is about cleaning the rental unit
because of fentanyl contamination. For the reasons
that follow, I find that the Tenant,
an occupant or guest wilfully
or




 
negligently caused undue damage
to the rental unit. I also find that the cost the Landlord will incur to repair
the damage exceeds $35,000.00.
 
4.     The Landlord submitted that the fentanyl
within the unit is dangerous
and must be removed.
The Landlord testified that on September 15, 2021, she received a call from
Waterloo Regional Police Service regarding their entry into the rental unit.
She was told that they confiscated fentanyl and arrested a person or several
people for possession and/or trafficking illegal drugs. The Landlord
hired a company by the name of Woodhouse Group Inc. (‘Woodhouse’) to investigate whether fentanyl was found on the property,
and whether decontamination
was required.
 
5.     Woodhouse attended the unit on September 30, 2021.
Submitted into evidence was a report from Woodhouse dated November 3, 2021
(Att#11 Fentanyl Investigation Report herein
referred to as ‘Woodhouse Report’). The investigators collected wipe samples which involved wiping down separate
locations for sample analysis. The fentanyl wipe samples were then analysed at
Cassen Testing Laboratory in Mississauga, Ontario.
 
6.     The Woodhouse Report found that the fentanyl wipe
sample results indicate that residual contamination is present on surfaces
throughout the unit. It also found that fentanyl contamination was likely
present within ductwork and plumbing due to widespread contamination. It
further states that cleaning should be undertaken to reduce residual fentanyl
concentrations to below a laboratory detectible limit, and reduce potential
exposure risks. A letter to the Landlord dated December 15, 2021 stated that a
Level 3 decontamination procedure was recommended, including air duct cleaning,
furnace cleaning, and replacement of p-traps (plumbing) (Att #4 Woodhouse
Scope of Work). Level
3 decontamination was explained in the Woodhouse Report.
 
7.     The Landlord also claimed compensation for the front
door that was broken during the police raid and the mailbox key that the Tenant
had not returned.
 
8.     The Tenant’s position was that the Landlord did not
prove there was fentanyl in the unit constituting damage. The Landlord did not
submit a police report, call a police officer to testify or call a writer of
the Woodhouse Report to speak to their findings. In addition, the Woodhouse Report was contradictory. Finally, the Landlord
is not entitled to compensation for damage done by the
police.
 
Law and
Analysis
 
9.    
Subsection 89(1) of the Act says:
 
A landlord
may apply to the Board for an order requiring a tenant to pay reasonable costs that the landlord
has incurred or will incur for the repair of or, where repairing is not
reasonable, the replacement of damaged property, if the tenant,
another occupant of the
rental unit or a person whom the tenant permits in the residential complex
wilfully or negligently causes undue damage to the rental unit or the
residential complex and the tenant is in possession of the rental unit.




 
10.  On a balance of probabilities, I do not find that the
Tenant, an occupant or guest caused damage to the front door of the unit. It was
the police, not the Tenant, an
occupant or a person permitted in the unit by the Tenant who caused the damage
to the door. Since the police
were not an occupant or individuals permitted in the complex
by the Tenant, the Landlord
did not establish that the Tenant is responsible for the cost of repairing the
damaged door.
As such, the Landlord’s claim from the front door is dismissed. The Landlord’s
claim for the mailbox key is also dismissed because a missing key does not
constitute damage within the meaning of the Act.
 
11.  On a balance of probabilities, I find that the Tenant,
an occupant or guest wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the rental
unit due to the fentanyl contamination in the unit. The Woodhouse Report is
clear that fentanyl was found in the unit. The Tenant submitted there are
contradictions in the Woodhouse Report. However, I find that the Woodhouse
Report was reliable and consistent. The Tenant could have called counter
evidence, such as their own fentanyl report or a person specializing in fentanyl cleanup to testify, to persuade me that the Woodhouse Report
was unreliable. However, he did not.
 
12.  On a balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that it
was he, an occupant or a guest that caused the fentanyl contamination. The Tenant
did not produce any evidence to the contrary. Further, it was the Landlord’s
evidence, supported by the Woodhouse Report, that the fentanyl within
the unit is dangerous and must be removed. As such, I find that this
constitutes damage within the meaning of subsection 89(1) of the Act.
 
Compensation for Damages
 
13.  The remaining issue is whether the amount sought
by the Landlord was reasonable. I find that $35,000.00 is reasonable in the circumstances.
Submitted into evidence was a breakdown of costs incurred by the Landlord
(Att#14 Cost of Damage Repairs). The total amount was $61,463.65 for the initial
inspection, level 3 decontamination, final inspection,
front door replacement and mailbox key. Submitted into evidence was an email
from C. Silva, a Project Manager for Woodhouse Restorations, which provided an
updated quote for remediation (Decontamination Cost as of Jan 13). It stated
that the updated balance was roughly $45,000.00 for the remediation, air ducts
and furnace cleaning and final clearance testing by the independent consultant.
 
14.  The Tenant submitted that the Landlord’s quote was
vague, this was not a level 3 decontamination
and thus the amount for cleaning is excessive. The Tenant relied on TSL- 08688-19 for the proposition that I should not rely on the quote for fentanyl
remediation as it is unduly
vague.
 
15.  While I have found that the Tenant is not responsible
for the damages to the front door, and the missing mailbox key is not damages,
I am satisfied that the Level 3 restoration is required and this alone will
cost $45,000.00. The Tenant failed to submit evidence that Level 3 restoration is not required. Further, I
find the quote is not unduly vague.
The facts before me are distinguishable from TSL-08688-19, as the quote
before the Member
did not indicate any
determination or description of work that was required and what area of the
rental unit remediation was required. The Woodhouse Report,
read together with the scope of
work letter and the email from C. Silva, is very clear
what kind of work was required and




 
where in the unit. The Tenant also did not produce
counter evidence that the amount claimed is excessive. As such, I
find that this amount is reasonable in the circumstances.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Tenant shall pay to the Landlord $35,000.00, which
represents the reasonable costs of repairing the damage.
 
2.     If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord the full
amount owing on or before February 28, 2022, the Tenant will start to owe
interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from March 1, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
 
February 18, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Camille Tancioco
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Head Office
777 Bay Street, 12th Floor
Toronto Ontario M5G2E5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

