Metadata:
Date:	2018-02-16
File number:	
HOL-02048-17
	HOL-02048-17
Citation:	HOL-02048-17 (Re), 2018 CanLII 41854 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hs06n>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hs06n
Content:












 

Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: HOL-02048-17
 
 
 
 
S.E
(the 'Landlord') applied, to the Landlord and Tenant Board (the “Board”), for
an order to terminate the tenancy and evict L.R and W.R (the 'Tenants') because
the Tenants did not pay the rent that the Tenants owe.
 
This
application was heard in Toronto on January 2, 2018 and February 14, 2018.
 
The
Landlord was represented by L.I, licensed paralegal. The Tenant, W.R (the
“Tenant”), attended the hearing on behalf of both Tenants and was
self-represented.
 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Matters
 
1.     
After
the January 2nd sitting of the hearing, and upon reflection prior to
writing my decision, I came to realize I did not accord the Tenant an
opportunity to reply to the submissions of the Landlord’s legal representative
going to subsection 3(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
“Act”). Further, the parties were not afforded an opportunity to provide
submissions going to relief from eviction pursuant to section 83 of the Act.
2.     
For
these reasons, I decided reconvene the hearing to address the two issues above.
In order to accommodate the parties, and in particular, the Tenant, who is
self-represented, I instructed Board staff to enclose a copy of 1086891
Ontario Inc. v. Barber, 2007 CanLII 18734 (ON SCDC) (“Barber”), a
decision of the Divisional Court, going to one of the material issues and I
requested the parties be prepared to make submissions going to the
applicability of the Barber decision to the within application.
3.     
This
matter commenced on January 2, 2018 before me and another Member of the Board.
When this matter reconvened on February 14, 2017, the second Member was
unavailable and the parties agreed that the hearing would proceed de novo.
The
Landlord’s Application
 
4.     
The
Tenants are in possession of the rental unit.
5.     
The
Landlord alleges the Tenants have not paid the total rent they were required to
pay for the period from February 1, 2016 to February 28, 2018.  Because of the
arrears, the Landlord served a Notice of Termination effective October 26,
2017.
6.      On
October 11, 2017, the Landlord served a Notice to Terminate Early for
Nonpayment of Rent (the “N4 notice”) claiming, at that time, $360.00 for
arrears of rent. By the time the matter came before me on January 2, 2018, the
arrears amount claimed by the Landlord, to January 31, 2018, was $655.00. As at
the February 14th sitting, the arrears claimed amounted to $695.00;
however, based on my calculations, the arrears amount as at February 14, 2018
should be $520.00 (13 months x $40.00). The Landlord also claims the cost of
filing the application, in the sum of $175.00.
7.      The
arrears amount claimed by the Landlord is based on a notice of
rent increase (“NORI”), served to the Tenants on October 27, 2016, to take
effect on February 1, 2017 and increasing the monthly rent from $2,000.00 to
$2,040.00. 
8.     
The
Tenants claim the Landlord did not have the authority to serve the said NORI to
them because, on or about September 15, 2015, the parties executed a lease for
a term of five years commencing October 8, 2015, and stipulating, in part, as
follows:
“TERM OF
LEASE: The lease shall be for a term of five years commencing October 8, 2015.
RENT: The
Tenant will pay to the said Landlord monthly and every month during the said
term of the lease the sum of Two Thousand Canadian Dollars (CDN) $2,000.00
payable in advance on the first day of each month during the currency of the
said term…” [Emphasis added]
9.     
On
February 14th, the Tenant submitted, essentially, the Tenants’ lease
with the Landlord, which was negotiated by the Tenants with an experienced real
estate agent representing the Landlord, is a contract and all terms of the
lease must be honoured. The Tenant added the Tenants are seniors and entered
into the lease based on a monthly rent they could afford and understanding said
monthly rent would not be raised for a period of five years. If the Tenants are
successful in their argument, then the N4 notice served to them on October 11,
2017 is invalid, claiming as it does an unlawful monthly rent, and the Landlord’s
application must be dismissed.
10.  
The
Landlord’s legal representative submitted the Landlord is simply exercising his
statutory rights and the Landlord relies on subsection 3(1) of the Act, which
says: “This Act applies with respect to rental units in residential complexes,
despite any other Act and despite any agreement or waiver to the contrary.”
11.  
In
particular, the Landlord’s legal representative submitted the Landlord served
the NORI in accordance with section 116 of the Act and it was not disputed the
Landlord complied with this provision, which states:
116.  (1) 
A landlord shall not increase the rent charged to a tenant for a rental unit
without first giving the tenant at least 90 days written notice of the
landlord’s intention to do so.
(2) 
Subsection (1) applies even if the rent charged is increased in accordance with
an order under section 126. 
(3)  The
notice shall be in a form approved by the Board and shall set out the
landlord’s intention to increase the rent and the amount of the new rent. 
(4)  An
increase in rent is void if the landlord has not given the notice required by
this section, and the landlord must give a new notice before the landlord can
take the increase.  
12.  
The
Landlord’s legal representative further submitted the Landlord is relying on
subsection 119(1) of the Act, which reads as follows:
119.  (1) 
A landlord who is lawfully entitled to increase the rent charged to a tenant
for a rental unit may do so only if at least 12 months have elapsed,
(a) since
the day of the last rent increase for that tenant in that rental unit, if there
has been a previous increase; or
(b) since
the day the rental unit was first rented to that tenant, if clause (a) does not
apply.
13.  
Subsection
194(2) of the Act states:
Despite
subsection 3(1) and subject to subsection (3), a settlement mediated under this
section may contain provisions that contravene any provision under this Act.
14.  
For
the reasons that follow the Landlord is, in my view, permitted to increase the
Tenants’ monthly rent in accordance with the NORI served to the Tenants on
October 27, 2016.
15.  
In
Crown Trust Co. v. Rosenberg, [1986] O.J. No. 2683 (“Crown
Trust”), Galligan J., in considering subsection 2(1) of the Tenant
Protection Act, a provision identical to subsection 3(1) of the Act,
prohibited contracting out even if it is for the benefit of the tenant. At
paragraph 11 Galligan J. states as follows: 
In attractive and sophisticated
arguments, counsel for the landlord contended that the words ‘to the contrary’
in these sections referred to the mischief which the legislation was intended
to redress.  They contended that the mischief intended to be redressed by
both pieces of legislation was the perceived inequality of bargaining power
between tenants and landlords.  Thus they contended that the parties could
effectively agree to terms, which, so long as they increased tenants’ rights,
or at least did not impinge upon tenants’ rights, would not be an agreement or
waiver to the contrary, as contemplated by s. 82(1).
16.  
 And,
further, at paragraphs 14, 15, 16 and 19, as follows:
It is my opinion however, that there
is no ambiguity in the provisions of ss. 82(1) and 2(1) of the Acts which would
entitle me to engage in the exercise of searching out the mischief addressed by
the Legislature when it enacted the two pieces of legislation.  Indeed the
proposition advanced on the landlord’s behalf, when followed to its logical
conclusion, proposes that I should rewrite the sections so that they read that
the legislative provisions are to apply notwithstanding any agreement or waiver
to the contrary, entered into by the tenant.  In my opinion, I can do no
such thing.
I am unable to find anything in either
Act that would lead me to think that a landlord can bargain away his statutory
rights, but that a tenant cannot.  It is interesting to compare ss. 126 and 127 of
the Residential Tenancies Act, because very similar language is found in
both of them.  Section 126 says that where a landlord desires to increase
the rent permitted under the statute he may make an application for certain
relief.  Section 127 says that a tenant who desires to dispute any
intended rent increase, may make an application for relief.  I don’t
think that anyone would suggest that an agreement by a tenant to forgo [sic]
his s. 127 rights for a given period of time would be enforceable in the light
of s. 2(1) of the Act.  I am quite unable to conceive how the rights
given to the landlord in the preceding section in very similar language could
be treated differently.
I have come to the conclusion that the
words ‘to the contrary’, when used in the two sections, do not refer to the
mischief sought to be redressed by the Legislature, but refer to the
application of the legislation.  Thus an agreement to the contrary
cannot affect the application of Pt. IV of the Landlord and Tenant Act or
the application of the Residential Tenancies Act.
…While a failure to abide by the terms
of the proposed agreements might well be regarded with disfavour, I am of the
opinion that to the extent that they conflict with, restrict, waive or modify
the provisions of the Residential Tenancies Act, they are legally
unenforceable.
[Emphasis added]
17.  
 I
also find the following comments of Killeen J., in Pinheiro v. Bowes, [1994] O.J. No. 115 (“Pinheiro”), helpful: 
[13]      Judges
must accept statutes as they find them if they are clear and unambiguous and
catch the factual situation under consideration.
[14]      In my
view, while s. 99 was largely created to protect tenants, it cannot be said to
be contrary to public policy to enforce it in favour of a landlord. 
Section 99 provides a broadly-gauged protective rule for landlord-tenant
relationships and must be enforced as it plainly reads and provides. 
On its face, it invalidates the lease proviso in issue and makes the tenant
liable for one month’s additional rent. [Emphasis added]
18.  
Again,
considering subsection 2(1) of the Tenant Protection Act, in Barber the majority of the Divisional Court cited Crown
Trust and Pinheiro, with approval, and concluded:
[17]    In the
present case, the effect of the so-called agreement on which the tenant seeks
to rely would be to forever prohibit the landlord from exercising his right to
a rent increase as long as the tenant remained in possession.  Because the
so-called agreement would amount to a contracting out of the landlord’s right
to increase rent in accordance with the TPA, it runs afoul of ss. 2(1)
of the statute.  While there is provision in the TPA permitting
landlords and tenants to negotiate increases and decreases in specific
circumstances, none of those circumstances apply here and indeed no provision
of the TPA permits a “rent free” agreement.
[18]      The policy rationale behind ss.
2(1) is to treat tenants and landlords equally.  The subsection is
designed to prevent parties from bargaining away or waiving their statutory
rights no matter what the circumstances.  Both Crown Trust Co. v.
Rosenberg and Pinheiro v. Bowes found that the provision was meant
to operate as a blanket prohibition.  To permit a departure would create a
significant loophole which could dramatically impair the entire scheme of the Act.
[19]      The appellant submitted the
landlord was estopped from resiling from its bargain.  Estoppel cannot
override statute (see Harzuz Holdings Ltd. v. Peel (Regional Municipality),
[2006] O.J. No. 1830).  There is no need for the subsection to make
specific reference to the doctrine of estoppel.  In any event, it would be
illogical to conclude that, although the TPA prohibits in very clear
terms any agreement to the contrary or waiver of rights, it leaves open to the
parties to accomplish the same thing through the doctrine of estoppel.  In
any event, the Tribunal does not have the jurisdiction to apply the principle
of estoppel in the absence of specific statutory authority (see Klymko v.
Lem, [2001] O.J. No. 156). [Emphasis added]
19.  
Subsection
194(2) of the Act illustrates that the Legislature turned its mind to
circumstances where it is permissible to oust the provisions of subsection 3(1)
of the Act—that is, where the parties enter into an agreement, which is the
product of mediation at the Board, on consent. Here, clearly the facts do not
give rise to the application of subsection 194(2).
20.  
Section
17 of Ontario Regulation 516/06 further illustrates where the Legislature saw
fit to exempt parties from the application of the Act. Section 17 outlines
payments made by a tenant to a landlord that will not be considered to be
illegal fees under s.134 of the Act. Clearly, none of those circumstances apply here.
21.  
In
my view, had
the Legislature intended that other circumstances exist, where landlords and
tenants could further abrogate their respective statutory rights, such as when negotiating
the terms in a lease as is the case here, the Legislature could have, with relative
ease, so specified as it did in other provisions of the Act. In this case, the Landlord’s
rights impinged upon, and in fact annulled, by the lease are those accorded to him
by subsection 119(2) of the Act and, as such, the above-noted term in the parties’
lease alters the law
by taking away from the Landlord that which the Act grants. 
22.  
As Killeen J. says, Pinheiro v. Bowes, above, triers of
fact must accept statutes as they find them. Moreover, where the provision of a
statute is clear and unambiguous, as is the case here with subsection 3(1) of
the Act, it should
be interpreted according to its ordinary meaning within the broader context of
legislative intention, the object of the Act and the scheme of the
legislation.
23.  
The
Tenant stated he spoke with some of his friends and clients, who are lawyers,
and submitted Barber should be distinguished because that case involved
a month-to-month tenancy, which is not the case here. However, there is nothing
substantive
to distinguish the case at bar from Barber. In Barber, the
landlord had given the tenant a letter indicating that the tenant’s rent would
be frozen until the tenant decided to vacate the unit. However, the following
year the landlord served the tenant with a notice of guideline rent increase.
The tenant refused to pay the increase and the landlord applied to the Tribunal
for an order for arrears and termination which was granted. The tenant appealed
the decision, however it was upheld by Divisional Court. The majority of the
Divisional Court held that the landlord was not estopped from increasing the
rent despite the letter stating otherwise.
24.  
Section
1 of the Act states the purposes of the Act include protection from unlawful
evictions and a balancing of the rights and
responsibilities of residential landlords and tenants. It seems to me
entirely inconsistent with one of the stated purposes of the Act, for the
Legislature to then, concomitantly, contemplate making it lawful for parties to
contract away a right codified in the legislation. This is especially so
on a plain reading of subsection 3(1) and in light of the Divisional
Court’s pronouncement in Barber, as already noted above,
where the majority of the Court stated, in connection with the section in the
predecessor legislation identical to subsection 3(1) of the Act, in part:
The
subsection is designed to prevent parties from bargaining away or waiving their
statutory rights no matter what the circumstances. 
25.  
The
Court in Barber goes on to find that the provision was meant to operate
as a blanket prohibition and, “To permit a departure would create a significant
loophole which could dramatically impair the entire scheme of the Act.”
26.  
And
I agree. To uphold the term(s) at issue in the lease would deny the Landlord,
for a period of five years, his statutory right to raise the monthly rent in
accordance subsection 119(1) of the Act while, simultaneously, amount to a
licence for breaches of the Act by the Tenants, when Landlord chooses to
exercise his statutory right to lawfully raise the rent. Again, this could not
have been the intent of the Legislature.
27.  
Accordingly,
the Landlord was entitled to increase the monthly rent as stipulated in the
NORI, served to the Tenants on October 27, 2016, to take effect on February 1,
2017 and increasing the monthly rent from $2,000.00 to $2,040.00. 
28.  
The
Tenants have not paid $520.00 of the total rent the Tenants were required to
pay for the period from February 1, 2016 to February 28, 2017. The Tenants also
owe the Landlord $175.00 for the cost of filing the application.
29.  
The
total amount owing is $695.00 ($520.00 + $175.00).
30.  
The
Landlord requested a standard order, according the Tenants eleven days to pay
the total amount outstanding and continue the tenancy.
31.  
The
Tenant requested a payment plan, whereby the Tenants would satisfy their
arrears debt to the Landlord over a period of six months as the Tenants are on
a fixed income. The Tenant explained he works part-time and his spouse does not
work. The Tenant stated the Tenants’ gross monthly income is approximately
$5,000.00.
32.  
I
asked the Landlord’s legal representative for submissions going to section 83
relief and he stated he did not have anything further to add. No evidence was
presented the parties have, in the past come before the Board on any issues
arising out of the tenancy. Indeed, the Tenants’ uncontradicted evidence is the
monthly rent, in the amount they believed to be the lawful rent, that is
$2,000.00, was invariably paid in full and on time since the outset of the
tenancy.   
33.  
Having
considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection
83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), I find that it would
not be unfair to grant relief from eviction subject to the conditions set out
in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1) of the Act. 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     
The
Tenants shall pay the Landlord $695.00 as follows:                                                      
a)
$120.00 on March 1, 2018 and $120.00 on the first day of each and every month
thereafter until the outstanding arrears amount owing to the Landlord is
reduced to zero.
2.     
Commencing
in March, 2018, and each and every month thereafter until August, 2018,
inclusive, the Tenants shall pay the lawful rent, in the sum of $2,040.00, to
the Landlord no later than the first day of the month.
3.     
If
the Tenants fails to make any one of the payments in accordance with this
order, the outstanding balance of any arrears of rent and costs to be paid by
the Tenants to the Landlord pursuant to paragraphs 1 or 2 of this order shall
become immediately due and owing and the Landlord may, without notice to the
Tenants apply to the Board pursuant to section 78 of the Act for an order
terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenants and requiring that the Tenants
pay any new arrears, NSF fees and related charges that became owing after February
28, 2018.
 
 
 
 
 
 
February 16, 2018                                                           _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Roger
Rodrigues
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Head Office
777 Bay Street, 12th Floor
Toronto Ontario M5G2E5
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or
toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

