Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-28
File number:	
HOL-08509-20

Citation:	Perera v Heenan, 2022 CanLII 82058 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrv0j>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: HOL-08509-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


37 RITCHIE DRIVE
GRAND VALLEY ON L9W6W4


 




Between:


Harsha Perera Shanika Perera


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Daniel Heenan
  Lauren Tilly


Tenants



 
 
Harsha Perera and Shanika
Perera (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy
and evict Daniel Heenan and Lauren Tilly (the 'Tenants') because they, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone they permitted in the residential
complex have wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The Landlords have also applied for an
order requiring the Tenants to compensate the Landlords for the damage.
 
This hearing was held by
videoconference on January 6, 2022. The
Landlords and the Landlords’ representative, Goby Arumai, attended
the hearing. One Tenant, Daniel
Heenan, and the Tenants’
representative, Carrie Aylwin, also attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     On October 1, 2020 the Landlords submitted an L2 application
to the Board applying to evict the Tenants
as a result of damage
to the hardwood flooring and hardwood staircase of the rental unit. The Landlords also requested $7702.34 in
compensation for this damage.
 
2.    
Board Order HOL-08509-20, issued
on January 28, 2022, terminated this tenancy on October 31, 2020 on the basis
that the Tenants had vacated the rental unit on that date. Therefore, the Landlords application for eviction is moot, and the only issue for the Board to consider is the Landlord’s claim
for compensation for damage.
 
3.     Section 89(1)(a) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act')
states:
 
A Landlord
may apply to the Board for an order requiring
a tenant or former
tenant to pay reasonable costs that the
landlord has incurred or will incur for the repair of or, where repairing is not reasonable, the replacement of
damaged property if,
 
(a)      
While the tenant or former tenant
is or was in possession of the rental unit, the tenant or former tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or a person




 
permitted in the residential
complex by the tenant or former tenant wilfully or negligently causes
or caused undue damage to the rental
unit or the residential complex.
 
4.     The Tenants were in possession of the rental unit on
the date of the Landlords’ L2 application for damages to the Board. The Landlords submitted this application
for damages on October 1, 2020 and the Tenants vacated the rental unit on
October 31, 2020. Therefore, the Landlords’ L2 application for damages will be considered pursuant to s. 89(1)(a) of the Act.
 
Landlords’ Evidence
 
5.     The Landlords testified that they purchased the rental
unit, a brand new single detached house, on December 1, 2017. They stated that it was their intent to
immediately rent the unit; however, they did not have enough money to purchase
appliances for the unit until 2019. The Landlords
stated that the Tenants took possession of the unit on July 1, 2019, and at that time the hardwood
flooring in the house was brand new.
 
6.    
The Landlords submitted a letter
from their Real Estate sales representative, Ritu Jain, signed and dated December
17, 2021. In the letter,
Ms. Jain states
that she was hired by the Landlords on April 20, 2019 to
list their property for lease. She notes in
her letter that the rental
unit was new, never lived
in, and that there were no scratches on the hardwood flooring during her two visits
to the property after listing it. The
Landlords did not submit any of the listing photos of the rental unit to the
Board.
 
7.     The Landlords testified further that on August 8, 2020 they accompanied Leighton
Brown, a professional home inspector, during a maintenance inspection of
the rental unit. The Landlords
contend that this inspection was conducted for Tarion Home Warranty
requirements; however, the inspection was halted early at the request of the
Tenants.
 
8.     The Landlords submitted the inspection report of the unit from Mr. Brown dated August 10, 2020 that included two
photos of hardwood flooring with scratches. The Landlords also
submitted an additional three photos of hardwood flooring with scratches
photographed on August 8, 2020, the day of the inspection. In the report Mr. Brown states:
 
a)       The hardwood flooring
on the staircase will require
refinishing as a result of adhesives placed on each tread. Estimated cost of $3000.00.
 
b)       The hardwood flooring
on the landing of the staircase will require replacement as a result of dog scratches. Estimated cost of $460.40 plus HST.
 
c)       
The hardwood flooring in the Great
Room will require replacement as a result of
dog scratches. Estimated
cost of $4762.40 plus HST. Mr. Brown noted that the inspection of this room was
curtailed as a result of escalating hostilities.
 
9.     The Landlords asserted that the Tenants’ dog caused
the damage to the hardwood flooring and the hardwood staircase. The Landlords stated
that Mr. Brown received his




 
hardwood repair and replacement estimates from hardwood
flooring specialists. They noted that as of the date of the
hearing, the hardwood has not been repaired.
 
Tenants’ Evidence
 
10.  The Tenant testified
that when he moved into the rental unit on July 1, 2019 the flooring
was in good condition, but not pristine, and on July 1, 2019 he did not have an
opportunity to observe whether there were any scratches on the hardwood floor
or hardwood staircase. The Tenant
noted that on July 1, 2019 the unit seemed
like it had been lightly lived in before the start of his tenancy. The Tenant stated that during the course
of his tenancy, in conversations with neighbours, the neighbours remarked that
the house was used sometimes on the weekends before the Tenants moved in.
 
11.  Regarding the unit inspection on August 8, 2020, the Tenant explained that the Landlords and the home inspector were
starting to move furniture in the living room, and that is the reason he requested
that the inspection be stopped.
He asserted that the inspection was being accomplished to support the Landlords’ L2
application.
 
12.  The Tenant testified further that at the end of his
tenancy there were light surface scratches on the hardwood flooring and
staircase caused by normal wear and tear from his own tenancy, and from whoever used the unit before his tenancy. The Tenant added that the adhesive strips
placed on the staircase treads
were installed at the request
of the Landlords. The Tenant advised that his elderly
14-year old 80-pound dog resided in the rental unit during his tenancy, but his
dog did not cause the scratches on the hardwood.
 
Analysis
 
Hardwood Flooring
on the Staircase
 
13.  The Landlords applied
for compensation for damage
to the hardwood flooring as a result of scratches; however, the
inspection report dated August 10, 2020 notes that the damage on the staircase
is the result of an adhesive that was applied
to each tread – not scratches. The Tenant asserted that this adhesive was applied at the
request of the Landlords, and the Landlords did not refute this assertion.
 
14.  Although the Landlords
did not provide photos of the condition
of the hardwood staircase
before the tenancy, on the basis of the evidence provided, I am satisfied that
the hardwood staircase was in excellent condition at the start
of this tenancy.
However, with only one photo
of one staircase tread provided from August 8, 2020, I am unable to determine,
on a balance of probabilities, whether the damage exceeds normal wear and tear
that might be reasonably expected during a tenancy, or the result of the
Tenants complying with the Landlords’ request to apply adhesive strips to the
staircase treads. I find that the
home inspector’s estimate to repair the staircase damage, in the amount of
$3000.00, provides insufficient details
regarding how this figure is determined.
 
15.  For the above reasons, on the basis of the evidence
provided, I find that the Landlords have not established that the Tenants
willfully or negligently caused undue damage
to the hardwood flooring on
the staircase of the rental unit.




 
Hardwood Flooring in the Great Room
 
16.  The Landlords provided no photos of the condition of
the hardwood flooring in the Great Room before the tenancy; however, on the
basis of the evidence provided, I am satisfied that the hardwood flooring
in the Great Room was in excellent condition at the start of this
tenancy.
 
17.  The Landlords provided a couple of photos of the Great
Room from the inspection on August 8, 2020, and these photos illustrate some
scratches in two areas of the room. The
inspection report states that the scratches were caused by a pet and recommends
the replacement of the entire floor at a cost of $4762.40 plus HST. I do not accept, on the basis of these
few photos, that to remedy
the identified scratches requires a complete replacement of the entire floor,
or is the result of activity of the Tenants beyond normal wear and tear.
 
18.  For the above reasons, on the basis of the evidence
provided, I find that the Landlords have not established that the Tenants
willfully or negligently caused undue damage to the hardwood flooring in the Great Room
of the rental unit.
 
Hardwood Flooring on the Staircase Landing
 
19.  Although the Landlords provided no photos of the
condition of the hardwood flooring on the staircase landing before the tenancy,
on the basis of the evidence provided, I am satisfied that the hardwood
flooring on the staircase landing
was in excellent condition at the start of this tenancy.
 
20.  The home inspector’s photo of the landing from the
August 8, 2020 inspection displays a significant number of scratches on the
hardwood floor. In his report dated
August 10, 2020, the home inspector describes the landing as “severely
scratched”, and provides a detailed breakdown of the costs to replace the
flooring, totaling $460.40 plus HST. I
am satisfied, on the basis of this photo, and the home inspector’s report, that these scratches
require a replacement of the floor at a cost to the Landlords of $520.25
inclusive of HST.
 
21.  On the basis of the evidence provided, I am satisfied
that the damage to the hardwood floor on the staircase landing,
during this tenancy,
was undue and not likely
the result of normal wear and tear. I find that the Tenants, on a balance of
probabilities, negligently caused undue damage to the hardwood flooring on the
staircase landing.
 
22.  Given that the hardwood flooring
on the staircase landing is approximately four years old, and using a depreciation rate of
3.0% per year, I am granting the Landlords’ request for an order requiring the
Tenants to pay the Landlords $457.82. This
represents the reasonable costs of replacing the damaged hardwood flooring on
the staircase landing.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The Tenants shall pay to the Landlords $457.82, which represents the reasonable costs of replacing the damaged property.
 
2.     The Tenants shall
also pay to the Landlords $186.00 for the cost
of filing the application.




 
 
 
3.    
If the Tenants do not pay the Landlords the full amount
owing on or before
February 8, 2022, the Tenants will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from February 9,
2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
 
January 28, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Frank Ebner
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Central-RO
3 Robert Speck Pkwy, 5th Floor Mississauga ON L4Z2G5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

