Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-11
File number:	
HOT-08252-20

Citation:	Pokora v Lu, 2022 CanLII 106821 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jszx6>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 30
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: HOT-08252-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


1, 68 HAYNES AVENUE NORTH YORK ON M3J0C1


 




Between:


Alexandra Pokora


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Yunxiang Lu


Landlord



 
 
Alexandra Pokora (the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that Yunxiang Lu (the 'Landlord') failed to meet the Landlord's
maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety, housing or maintenance
standards.
 
This application was heard
in Video Conference 117 on October
14, 2021
 
The Tenant, the Landlord
and the Landlord’s representative, E. Shi, attended
the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     In her application the Tenant claimed
remedies for the Landlord’s failure
to repair flooring, for two leaks in the ceiling of
her bedroom and for the Landlord’s failure to repair a shower. At the hearing the Tenant indicated that
both the flooring and the shower had since been repaired
and that she sought remedies
only for damage
from the ceiling
leaks. She did not seek any rental rebate for the time during which the
Landlord had failed to effect the repairs.
 
2.    
I
find, as follows,
that the Tenant’s
bedroom ceiling developed
a sudden and serious leak early in the morning of June 18, 2020,
that the leak persisted long enough to significantly
damage her mattress and that the Landlord failed to respond in a reasonably
timely way to either the leak or to
the damage to the Tenant’s ceiling. My determination is based on the following:
 
a)    
The Tenant testified that she woke
up at 5:00 or 6:00 am on June 18, 2020 to a significant leak along a sort of
line in the centre of
her bedroom ceiling.
She referred to a video
of the leak (Exhibit 4) which showed a significant amount of water dripping
from the ceiling. The leak came from
the toilet in a bathroom used by other tenants and located directly above the
Tenant’s bedroom;
 
b)    
The Tenant testified that she immediately contacted the Landlord
but did not receive a response until that afternoon – to the effect that someone would
come by to inspect at




 
11:00 pm that night. She was informed by the upstairs tenants that
the Landlord came by and plunged the upstairs toilet
and that he had told that that tenant that there
would not be any further problem. The
Landlord did not come to the Tenant’s room, inspect the damage to her room or
otherwise respond with respect to repair;
 
c)     
The Landlord did not contest the Tenant’s evidence
regarding the leak except to say
the leak in the Tenant’s ceiling was along the side of the ceiling rather than
in the middle. The Landlord did not
contest the testimony about his failure to view or respond to the impact of the
leak into the Tenant’s room;
 
d)    
The Tenant testified that her mattress
was soaked with water from the upstairs
toilet. She referred to a photo of the mattress (Exhibit 5) taken months
later. The photo shows a large mark on the mattress, which the Tenant
identified as the remaining stain from the water damage;
 
e)    
The Tenant testified that a similar
leak occurred again in August 2020. The Tenant
notified the Landlord of the leak. She did not get any response from the
Landlord except an indication that the Landlord notified the upstairs tenant of
the problem;
 
f)      
The Landlord did not contest the Tenant’s testimony about that leak except to say that it came from the shower, rather than
the toilet, of the upstairs bathroom;
 
g)    
The Tenant contacted a city
inspector to inspect various issues with respect to the unit. The inspector indicated to the Tenant that
she was issuing an order to the Landlord to make various repairs,
including repair to the ceiling
of the Tenant’s room.
The Landlord did not contest this testimony; and
 
h)    
The ceiling was fixed in November
2020;
 
3.    
The Tenant testified that the
damage to her mattress, particularly in light of the fact that the leak
involved toilet water, forced her to purchase a new mattress. She testified that the best deal she could
find for an acceptable mattress was through a retailer who had overstock in
beds. She referred to a receipt
(Exhibit 6) in the amount of $2,000.00 for a mattress, box spring
and bed frame. Although the Tenant claimed
in her application for the
full $2,000.00, she acknowledged that the portion attributable to the mattress
was
$1,600.00. She acknowledged that she had not attempted
to negotiate a different price for the mattress alone. She presented no evidence about the age of
the mattress she replaced of about when she had purchased that mattress.
 
4.     For reasons which are unclear, the Tenant had the bed
delivered to and stored at a friend’s house for several months
before having it moved to her room in October
2020. She continued to use the old mattress, covered in plastic, during
the interim.
 
5.     The Tenant also claimed $295 for her estimated cost to replace
a pair of boots and a pair of shoes which had been damaged by
the leak. Her estimate was based on
the cost of new items similar to those which had been damaged. She did not testify to, or bring evidence
to support, the price she had paid for them.




 
 
 
6.    
I
find that the Landlord failed
to respond in a reasonably timely way to the toilet
leak or to the damage in the Tenant’s room and that this failure
contributed to the mattress damage. I
find that the Tenant’s purchase of a new mattress was reasonable in light of
the nature of the damage to her mattress. I
find, however, in light of the fact that the Tenant brought no evidence as to
the current value of the replaced mattress, that some discount should be
accorded to the price of the new mattress. I
find that a payment of
$1,000.00 from the Landlord
to the Tenant for this item is appropriate in the
circumstances.
 
7.     I find that the Tenant
has failed to establish the lost value
of the shoes and boots.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant $1,000.00 for the
cost the Tenant incurred to replace the mattress
damaged as a result of the Landlord’s failure to respond
to the upstairs leak in a
thorough and timely way.
 
2.     The Landlord shall also pay the Tenant
$48.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
3.      
The total amount the Landlord owes the Tenant
is $1,048.00.
 
4.     The Landlord shall pay the Tenant the full amount
owing by February
28, 2022.
 
5.     If the Landlord
does not pay the Tenant the full amount owing by
February 28, 2022 the Landlord
will owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from March 1, 2022
at 2.00% annually on the outstanding balance.
 
6.     If the Landlord
does not pay the Tenant the full amount owing by
February 28, 2022, the Tenant may
recover the outstanding amount by deducting whatever amount is outstanding from
the rent each month until the full amount is recovered.
 
7.     The Tenant has the right,
at any time, to collect
the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
 
February 11, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Lynn Mitchell
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Head Office
777 Bay Street, 12th Floor
Toronto Ontario M5G2E5




 
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

