Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-21
File number:	
HOT-08118-20

Citation:	Johnson v Osman, 2022 CanLII 70773 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jr92h>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: HOT-08118-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


47 CROWS NEST LANE BOWMANVILLE ON L1C4A9


 




Between:


Karen Johnson Ricardo Johnson Danielle Williams


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Fathia Ali Osman


Landlord



 
 
 
Karen Johnson (“KM”), Ricardo
Johnson (“RJ”) and Danielle Williams (“DW”) (the 'Tenants') applied for an order
determining that Fathia
Ali Osman (the 'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with them and
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their household.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on December 16, 2021.
 
The Tenants
attended the hearing
along with the Landlord and her son, Osman Ali. Ricardo Johnson and Karen Johnson testified on behalf of the Tenants,
while Fathia Ali Osman and Osman Ali testified on behalf of the Landlords.
 
Preliminary Issue
 
1.    
On December 14th, 2021,
the Tenants had made an application to the Board requesting that this matter be joined with File #CET-97860-21, a T1 application regarding the same rental property.
 
2.     That
application was filed
sometime after this application and had not yet been set for a
hearing.
 
3.    
The Landlord
was not aware
of this application and had no information available about the details.
 
4.     In consideration of the fact that the request to join
the matters was filed only two days before the hearing date, the application
was filed after this one, and the fact that the Landlord had no knowledge of the newer application I did not grant the application to join
up the matters.




 
 
 
 
 
 
Background
 
5.     The property in question is a three-bedroom house. The
Landlord had advertised the property as a two-bedroom upstairs
unit. The Tenants
had initially agreed to rent the two rooms in the house but had found that
they required more space.
 
6.    
As such the Tenants
agreed to rent the upstairs
of the house for $1900 per month,
which included 3 bedrooms.
 
7.    
The tenancy agreement did not include
the basement of the house. However, , there was no separate
access to the basement, and it could
only be accessed through the Tenant’s unit.
 
Basement Renovations
 
8.     When the lease
was signed the Landlord
had advised the Tenants that renovation work needed to be completed in the basement. Although the Tenants were not aware of this fact
at the time, the Landlord intended on renting out the basement as a separate
unit.
 
9.     It is undisputed that the tenancy
was to commence on December
1, 2019. On November 29th, 2019, the Landlord sent a text to the Tenants stating that the work being completed in the basement had not
yet finished. The Tenant, KM, sent a text message to the Landlord asking if the work was going to be completed by December 1st, 2019 when the tenancy was to
commence.
 
10.  In response to KM’s text, the Landlord advised that contractor, still needed to complete
some basement renovation.
 
11. 
The Tenant’s
testified that between December 1st and December
2nd, 2019, the Landlord’s contractor started his work
in the basement.
 
12.  The contractor continued this work in the basement
anywhere from 5 to 8 days.
 
13.  While completing the work, the contractor stayed in
the basement overnight. Further, the contractor could only access
the basement through
the Tenants unit. The difficulty here is that the
Tenants testified that they were unaware of the fact that the contractor would
effectively be living in the basement for the duration of the work. The
Landlord testified that she made the Tenants aware of this arrangement prior to
the contractor starting his work however, no evidence was submitted to support
that assertion.




 
14.  The Tenants’ daughter
Danielle was 19 years of age at the time, and the Tenants were
uncomfortable with a male staying
in the house while she was also there.
RJ as a result had to stay
home, as the family did not feel comfortable with this arrangement.
 
15.  KJ had sent an e-mail
to the Landlord on December
19th, 2019, expressing her concerns about
the contractor living in the house. The Tenant outlined that she was never made
aware that she would be sharing space with the contractor.
 
Analysis – Substantial interference due to work
 
16. 
It is uncontested that for between
5-8 days in December 2019 the Landlord’s contractor completed renovations to the basement unit in the
residential complex.
 
17.   
The Tenants testified that the
contractor living in the basement while conducting the work made the Tenants
uncomfortable. They were not aware that a strange man would
essentially be living in their basement while the drywalling was taking place.
 
18.  Because the Tenants’ application claims substantial
interference due to “work” undertaken by the Landlord, , I must apply s. 8(2) of Ontario Regulation 516/06 which states:
 
8(2) For the purposes
of section 22, paragraph 3 of subsection 29 (1) and subsection 31 (1) of the Act, this
section applies to the Board in making
a determination,
 
(a)  
as to whether a landlord, superintendent or agent of a landlord,
in carrying out work in a rental unit or residential
complex, substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the unit or complex for all usual
purposes by a tenant or former tenant, or by a member
of the household of a tenant or former tenant; and
 
(b)  
whether an abatement of rent is justified in the circumstances.
 
19.    As
a result, before
the LTB can declare inference due to “work” “substantial interference with reasonable enjoyment”
the provisions of section 8 must first be considered.
 
20.   
Subsection 8(3) of the regulation reads as follows:
 
 
(3) In making a determination described in subsection (2),
 
(a)  
the Board shall consider
the effect of the carrying
out of the work on the use of
the rental unit or residential complex by the tenant or former tenant, and by
members of the household of the tenant or former tenant; and
 
(b)   the
Board shall not determine that an interference was substantial unless
the carrying out of the work constituted an interference that was unreasonable in the




 
circumstances with the use and enjoyment
of the rental unit or residential complex by the tenant or former tenant,
or by a member of the household of the tenant or former tenant.
 
21.   
I
find that the inference with the Tenants’
reasonable enjoyment of the premises
was unreasonable in the circumstances. In say this because the Landlord
allowed the contractor to effectively live in the house without the Tenants
express permission anywhere from 5 to 8 days. While the Tenants did not rent
the basement unit, the basement was only accessible through the Tenants house,
effectively granting a contractor, who the tenants did not know, full access to
their unit at any time.
 
22.   
Further, I also accept the Tenants’
evidence that they were not aware until the day before the work was to be commence that the
basement was incomplete. I further find that the Tenants were not informed in
advance that the contractor would be staying overnight in the basement unit nor
agreed to that arrangement. While the Landlord claims to have informed the
Tenants in advance, the Landlord did not provide any evidence to substantiate
that claim.
 
23.   
While it was not necessarily the effect of the work itself on the Tenants
that substantially interfered
with their enjoyment of the unit, it was the carrying out of the work by
the contractor effectively living in the unit which I find to have been
unreasonable in the circumstances.
 
24.   
The Landlord testified that the
contractor did not have a car and assumed that this arrangement would be ok
with the Tenants. The Landlord even testified that she had dropped off the contractor the first day the work was to commence.
Clearly the Landlord had the means to provide the
contractor with daily transportation to minimize the intrusion of the
contractor’s presence in the unit.
 
25.   
Now that I have made that
determination, I must review the next part of the test. Subsection 8(4) of the regulation provides
that the Board
shall not order an
abatement of rent if all of a
long list of criteria are satisfied. Essentially, subsection 8(4) provides that
even where tenant passes the threshold test set out in subsection 8(3), the
tenant is barred from being awarded an abatement of the rent (although not from
other remedies) if the landlord has met a number of requirements concerning how
the work was done
 
 
22.  
 I find in my analysis of this subsection that not all the following conditions have been met and
that I can order an abatement of rent. Subsection 8(4)1 requires that a landlord give the tenant at least 60
days’ notice of the work. That did not happen here and so 8(4) is not a bar to ordering a rent abatement in this case.
 
 
23.   Subsection 8(5) of the regulation provides a list of factors
to consider in determining
whether it is appropriate to order an abatement of rent and the amount of the
rent abatement. s. 8(5) of the Regulation provides as follows:




 
(5) If the Board finds
that the landlord, superintendent or agent of the landlord, in carrying out work in a rental unit or residential complex, substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the unit or complex for all usual purposes by a tenant
or former tenant, or by a member of the household of a tenant
or former tenant,
and an abatement of rent is not prohibited under subsection (4), the
Board shall consider the following in determining whether it is appropriate to
order an abatement of rent and the amount of the abatement:
 
1.  
The nature, duration and degree of interference with the reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit or residential complex that was caused by the carrying out of the work.
 
2.  
Whether the tenant or former tenant
is responsible for any undue
delay in the carrying out of the work.
 
3.  
The steps taken by the landlord
during the work to minimize
interference with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or residential complex.
 
4.  
Whether the tenant or former
tenant took advantage of any service provided by the landlord or arrangement made by the landlord that would minimize
interference with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential complex.
 
5.  
Whether a failure to carry out the work could, within a reasonable period of time, reasonably be expected to result in,
i.  interference with the reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex for all usual
purposes by a tenant or member of his or her household,
ii.  a reduction or discontinuation of a service
or facility,
iii.  damage or additional damage
to the rental unit, the residential complex
or anything in the unit or complex,
iv.  a risk to any person’s
health or personal
safety, or
v.  a breach of section 20 or
section 161 of the Act by the landlord
 
24.   In considering section 1 of this section, I find that
the nature, duration, and degree of the interference to be substantial. Tenants
should have a sense of privacy while in their unit and the Landlord had a clear
disregard for this. Not only was the contractor living in the basement for this
period, they could only access
the basement through
the Tenant’s unit.
 
25.  
I do not find that the Tenants were responsible for any delay in the work being
completed under section 2.
 
26.   With respect to subsection 3, I find that the Landlord could
have taken reasonable steps to minimize the contractor’s intrusion
in the unit however she permitted the contractor to stay in the unit while she could have
arranged for his transportation to and from the house as required.
 
27.   
I
do not find that subsections 4 or 5 apply in these circumstances.




 
28.  
To conclude this portion of my
analysis, I find on a balance of
probabilities that the Landlord did
substantially interfere with the Tenants
reasonable enjoyment of the unit by
permitting their contractor to live in the house while conducting the work as described, and that I can order a
rent abatement for the period in which the interference occurred.
 
Other Maintenance Issues
 
29.   Both Tenants Karen and Ricardo Johnson provided
evidence of other incidents in which the Landlord had hired contractors to
complete other work in the house such as flooring,
cupboard installation, air conditioning installation and painting but I do not find that those activities
substantially interfered with the Tenants. While I can certainly appreciate
that the work that was completed may have been an inconvenience to the Tenants,
I do not find that the activity rises to the level of substantial interference or harassment as defined
under the Act.
 
House Sale & Harassment
 
30.  
In June of 2020,
like millions of other Canadians the Landlord had lost her employment
because of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result
of this circumstance, she had decided that she would sell the house.
 
31.  
On June 15th, 2020 the Landlord advised the Tenants
that she was selling the home and gave
the Tenants 60 days notice that their lease would be terminated. The Tenants were advised
that the Landlord required the home to be vacant by August 31st,
2020.
 
32.   The Tenants were provided an N11 form with a termination date of August 31st, 2020.
 
33.  
The Tenants had advised
the Landlord that they had consulted the Board and responded
to the Landlord on June 17th, 2020 that they would not leave the
unit and would not sign the N11 notice.
 
34.   This issue created
tension between the parties, and the Landlord
had wanted to schedule
showings to assist with the sale. The showings were complicated by the various
precautions required due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
35.   Despite these issues,
the property was sold on July 6th, 2020 and the Tenants were made
aware of same. I note that the property was sold on the condition that it be
vacated however, the Landlord did not have any agreement or application in
place with the Tenants prior to doing so.
 
36.  
The Landlord attempted to provide
the Tenants with assistance in finding a new home. On July 15th,
2020 she had her realtor contact the Tenants to assist in this regard and
offered to provide a reference
letter for a new tenancy.
An e-mail from the realtor
sent to the Tenants was
submitted as evidence.
 
37.  
By August 2nd,
2020 the Tenants were facing challenges with finding new accommodations and advised
the Landlord of this. On August 4th, 2020 the Landlord




 
responded that she was required
to give the new owners the keys by 6:00 pm on September 1st, 2020. The
Landlord further implies that there are “layers and layers of financial
implications” which I find on a balance of probabilities is a vexatious comment
made by the Landlord. I find that she made this comment to scare the Tenants
into finding new accommodations as soon as possible to support the Landlord’s
financial interests. I note again that the Tenants never signed the N11 and
that no other documentation was filed with the
Board by this date. I further note that
the Landlord then filed an N12 notice with the Board on August 4th, 2020 with a termination date of October 31st, 2020.
 
38.  
On August 6th, 2020,
the Tenants advised the Landlord that they were able to secure a new unit however, it would not be
available for them until November
1st, 2020. On August 9th, 2020 the
Landlord, her realtor and her son, Osman Ali arrived at the house to try to
negotiate an earlier move-out date with the Tenants. I find this in-person
visit in the middle of a pandemic to be a further indicator of Inappropriate behaviour by the Landlord.
 
39.   The Landlord had attempted to arrange an Airbnb for the Tenants
to stay in from August 30th to November 1st,
2020 and sent an e-mail to that effect on August 13th, 2020. The
Tenants replied on August 15th, 2020 that they would either be willing
to stay in the unit until October 31st, 2020 or accept the payment
of moving and storage costs.
 
40.   Despite this counteroffer, I find that the Tenants and
the Landlord never came to any agreement regarding this issue
and it is at this point that legal representatives from both parties
began corresponding with one another.
 
41.   The Tenants testified
that they did not trust the Landlord
to let them use her credit card to
secure the Airbnb. They feared that the Landlord could simply cancel the
reservation at any time leaving the Tenants with no where to live.
 
42.   That being the case the Landlord then offered to pay the money in trust to the Tenants church, which offended the
Tenants as they did not want to have the church be made aware of their personal
matters.
 
43.  
A letter dated August 28th,
2020 sent from the Tenants paralegal, Suzanne Bemrose to the Landlord’s agent,
Mr. Rajan Mahavalirajan advised again that the Tenants would adhere to the N12
Notice and would move out on November
1st, 2020 and reminded the Landlords agent that the Reopening
Ontario Act prohibited evictions during the time period in question.
 
44.  
The Tenants
remained in the unit until October 31st, 2020 and then moved into their new unit.
 
45.   I find on a balance
of probabilities that the Landlord
knew or ought to have known that her
behaviour exhibited towards the Tenants from
June 15th, 2020 until August 31st, 2020 was unwelcome.




 
46.  
I
find on a balance of probabilities that the Landlord never considered at any time that the
Tenants were not required to move
from the unit just because she was
selling the house. The Tenant listed
the house and sold it on the condition that it would be vacant without making
the proper arrangements with the Tenants to find new accommodations. In her
desperation to sell, she never considered the issues being faced by the Tenant
in trying to find new living accommodations in a pandemic.
 
Determinations:
 
47.  
Therefore, I find that the Landlord
harassed and coerced the Tenants and substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their
household.
 
Remedies:
 
Basement
 
48.   With respect to the basement renovation issue from
December 2019, I find that the contractor had lived in the unit for a period of
8 days. Pursuant to s. 8(7) of Ontario Regulation 516/06, no rent abatement
shall exceed 25% of the monthly rent or part thereof in which the substantial
interference took place. The Tenants shall receive an abatement of rent
of 25% for each day from
December 1, 2019 to December
9, 2019 in the amount of
$137.90 ($1900/31 x 0.25% x 9 = $137.90).
 
Harassment
 
49.
The Tenants have requested
a 15% rent abatement for a period
of 7 months for a total of
$1995.00 and have also requested the filing fee of $48.00.
I find that the Tenants
were not harassed for a
7-month period, but I do find that the Tenants were harassed from June 15th,
2020, until August 31st, 2020.
 
50. I
am ordering a rent abatement of 15% between June 15th, 2020 to August 31st, 2020 in the amount
of $722.00
 
June 15th to 30th, 2020 - $1900/30
x 0.15 x 16 = $152.00
July 2020 - $1900 x 0.15 = $285.00
August 2020 - $1900 x 0.15 = $285.00
Total = $722.00
 
51. I further order
that the Landlord
pay the Tenants
filing fee of
$48.00.
 
52. The total amount
the Landlords owe is $907.90.
 
53. The Landlords shall
pay the Tenants the full amount owing by January
25, 2022.
 
54.
If the Landlords do not pay the Tenants
the full amount
owing by February 1st, 2022, they
will owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from February 2nd, 2022 at 2.00%
annually on the balance outstanding.




 
 
 
55. The Tenants have the
right, at any time, to collect the full amount owing or any balance outstanding under this order.
 
 
January 21st,
2022

Date Issued                                                                      Jagger Benham
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Head Office
777 Bay Street, 12th Floor
Toronto Ontario M5G2E5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

