Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-04
File number:	
HOT-08984-20

Citation:	Fuhr v Zhang, 2022 CanLII 87951 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js3qg>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 



 


Order under
Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act,
2006


 




 


File Number:
HOT-08984-20




 
In the matter
  of:


 
3163 WILLIAM COLTSON AVENUE OAKVILLE ON L6H0W9


 




Between:


Shelley Fuhr


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Yu (Lucy) Zhang


Landlord



 
 
 
Shelley Fuhr (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Yu (Lucy)
Zhang (the 'Landlord') entered the rental unit
illegally.
 
The hearing was held by videoconference on January 14, 2022.
 
The Landlord’s Legal
Representative, Yun Tao Li, the Landlord, and the Landlord’s husband attended the hearing. Although
the Landlord requested
an interpreter in advance of the hearing, the Landlord indicated she was comfortable proceeding with her husband
present to assist with
translation. As of 5:01 p.m. the Tenant was not present or represented at the
hearing although properly served with notice of the hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
1.       
The Tenant attended the hearing at or about 9:00 a.m. and declined
the opportunity to speak
with Duty Counsel
prior to the start
of the proceeding. In the morning,
I directed this application would be
held down until 1:00 p.m. and excused the parties. When advised of this, the
Tenant did not raise any objection.
 
2.       
At the end of the day, despite the absence of the Tenant,
I adjourned the hearing
due to scheduling overflow
and was not aware when the Tenant had ceased to be in attendance.
 
3.       
Following the hearing, an email
sent by the Tenant the day of the hearing came to my attention. In this email,
the Tenant advised
she was unable
to reattend at 1:00 p.m
as she only had been able to obtain
morning coverage for her teaching.
 
4.       
The Notice of Hearing
mailed to the Tenant advises:
 
You must: ● Be ready to stay the whole day – your hearing
may be later in the day.




File Number: HOT-08984-20
 
***It is very important for you to attend the hearing. If you are late, or if you do not attend your hearing, it may take
place without you. ***
 
WHAT MAY HAPPEN IF YOU DO NOT ATTEND THE HEARING:
 
If you are the tenant and you do not attend
the hearing or send a representative, the LTB can hold the hearing without you and your application
may be dismissed.
 
…
 
You may be represented by a lawyer or
paralegal licensed by the Law Society of Ontario or by an unlicensed person
where permitted by the Law Society Act and its regulations and by-laws. For more
information refer to the Practice Direction on Representation on the LTB
website at: https://tribunalsontario.ca/ltb/rules-practice- directions-guidelines/.
 
5.       
Although the Tenant did not
request an adjournment at the hearing, in her email the Tenant asked that the
hearing be rescheduled. She also indicated she understood if it could not and suggested
she relied on her application. This email was not copied
to the Landlord or their
representative.
 
6.       
In these circumstances, I find the Tenant knew or ought to have known the hearing could proceed in her absence, chose not
to send someone to speak on her behalf, and did not verbalise or advise of any
issues with reattending in the afternoon during the hearing when this matter was
first held down. Ultimately, I find the Tenant chose not to attend.
 
7.       
As a result, I find this application was abandoned.
 
It is ordered
that:
 
1.       
The Tenant's application is dismissed.
 
 
 








 
 
Rebecca Case




 


February 4, 2022
Date Issued
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Head Office
777 Bay Street, 12th Floor
Toronto Ontario M5G2E5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

