Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-11
File number:	
HOT-08891-20

Citation:	Thrasher v Wang, 2022 CanLII 106823 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jszx8>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
30
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: HOT-08891-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


4679 CORTINA ROAD BURLINGTON ON L7M0E6


 




Between:


Mimi Thrasher Gary Posavad


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Selina Yan Wang


Landlord



 
 
 
Mimi Thrasher and Gary Posavad (the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that Selina Yan Wang
(the 'Landlord') failed
to meet the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety, housing or maintenance standards.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on January 14th,
2022.
 
The Tenant, Mimi Thrasher
attended on the Tenant’s behalf, while the Landlord attended the hearing with her son Will Zheng. The Tenant testified on behalf of both Tenant’s. The Landlord’s
son testified on behalf of the Landlord.
 
Determinations
 
Background
 
1.     The Tenant’s In their T2 Application, the Tenant claim that the Landlord to comply with subsection 20(1) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) by failing remove mould and dirt from the
windows and failing to clean the carpets in the rental unit.
 
2.    
The Tenant’s
are seeking $587.60 for window cleaning,
and $357.90 for carpet cleaning and the rental of a carpet
cleaning machine and soap for a total of $945.30.
 
3.     For the reasons that follow, I am satisfied on a
balance of probabilities that the Landlord failed to comply with its
maintenance obligations under section
20(1) of the Act by failing to address the mould in the windows.
Accordingly, the Tenants are entitled to reasonable
out-of-pocket expenses incurred for resolving the issue on their own.
 
4.    
I am not satisfied
however, that the Landlord
was in breach of her obligation with respect
to the carpets. Accordingly, no remedy is ordered for this allegation.




 
 
 
Tenant’s Evidence
 
 
5.    
The Tenant
testified that her and the other tenant
had entered a lease with the Landlord with the agreed upon possession
date of September 1st, 2020.
 
6.     The Tenants had sought an opportunity to review the
cleanliness of the house prior to that date. The Landlord had provided an opportunity for the
Tenants to do so on August
30th, 2020, the Sunday prior to their possession date.
 
7.     The Tenant testified that when she viewed the unit that day, she found it to be in a
state of uncleanliness. The carpets were dirty and “off-white”, the curtains had to
be washed, the toilets were not properly cleaned and there was mold in
the windows. Photos were filed as exhibits.
 
8.    
The Tenant testified that the other Tenant has asthma and that she was worried
that there would be issues with
his breathing due to the dirty carpets
and the mold in the windows.
 
9.    
The Tenant
advised the Landlord of theses issues
by way of e-mail on September 6th, 2020.
 
10.  The Tenant further
alleges that the Landlord visited
the property on September 13th, 2020 and that the Tenant addressed
the issues with the Landlord again at that time. Later that day the Tenant emailed the Landlord advising that the
Tenants were going to pay someone to clean the unit and, in particular to clean
the windows and carpets, . The email
was entered into evidence. I note that on that occasion the Tenant did not
request to be reimbursed the costs for the cleaning.
 
11.  Despite the lack of the request for compensation in
the e-mail, the Tenant’s position is that she had no choice
but to pursue professional services
on her own since the Landlord
had been unresponsive to her previous complaints and did not seem to understand
the problem.
 
12.  The Tenants submitted receipts as evidence in the
amount of $587.60 for window cleaning, and $357.90
for carpet cleaning
and the rental
of a carpet cleaning machine and soap for a total of $945.30.
 
13.  The Tenant is claiming that the Landlord
had failed to meet her obligations under s. 20(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act (the
“Act”) by not properly maintaining the unit. As a result, she is seeking from
the Landlord compensation for her out of pocket expenses in the amount of
$945.30.
 
Landlord’s Evidence




 
14. 
The Landlord’s son provided the evidence on behalf of the
Landlord, as the Landlord had a language barrier.
 
15.  The Landlord’s son submitted that the Landlord had
cleaned the unit prior to the Tenant
taking possession and submitted invoices from Home Depot that itemized cleaning
supplies. The Landlord’s son testified that the receipts were for renting a carpet cleaning machine on August 9th,
2020 and that the Landlord had also arranged for the shower to be cleaned and
re-caulked.
 
16.  The Landlord pointed out that in the e-mail from the
Tenant to the Landlord dated September 13th, 2020, the Tenant never
actually requested to be reimbursed for any of the cleaning work and that the
Landlord was never informed about the cost. The Landlord’s son testified that
the Landlord had offered to repay some of the expenses to the Tenant
in the amount of a $200.00. The Tenant suggested in cross-examination that the offer to repay any expenses was
made after her application was filed.
 
17.  The Landlord’s son further took issue with the window
cleaning invoice submitted by the Tenant, who had hired the services of
Clotilde Anne-Marie Friedmann of Cam Friedman Studio to conduct the work. He
had conducted a Google Search of the cleaner in question and found that she had advertised herself as an artist. The Tenant’s response
to this finding was that the window cleaner was an artist but also took
on side-jobs as a cleaner to help pay the bills.
 
18.  The Landlord’s son further took issue with the
length of time the carpet cleaning took as detailed within the Tenant’s receipt. The receipt stated that
the cleaning took 6.5 hours. The
Landlord’s son stated that there is
only carpet on the 2nd floor and should have not taken anywhere near
6.5 hours to complete.
 
Analysis
 
19.  Section 20(1) of the Act states:
 
A landlord is responsible for
providing and maintaining a residential complex, including rental units,
in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with health, safety, housing and maintenance standards.
 
20.  In Onyskiw v. CJM Property
Management Ltd., 2016 ONCA 477, the Court of Appeal
held that a Landlord will not be held liable for breaching its
maintenance obligations if it responds to a maintenance issue reasonably in the
circumstances.
 
21.  Having reviewed the photos of the windows provided by
the Tenant, I do find on a balance of probabilities that the windows in the
unit were dirty and caked in mold. I find that the Tenants had made note of
this of this issue prior to moving into the unit and as such, the Landlord were or
ought to have been aware
of the state of the windows before the Tenants took possession of the
unit. I find further that the Landlords were made aware of this issue by
the Tenant but had
failed to provide a reasonable response to the issue. I accept the evidence from the Tenant that she paid out of pocket
expenses in the




 
amount of $587.60 to rectify this issue
in a timely manner due to the other tenant having breathing issues.
 
22.  With respect to the issue of the carpets, having
reviewed the photographs submitted in evidence by the Tenants, and the evidence
of the cleaning supplies purchased by the Landlords, I do find that they had
cleaned the carpets prior to the
Tenants taking possession of the unit. Having reviewed the Tenant’s evidence
about the carpets being dirty and “off-white”, I do not find that the carpets were not in a good state of repair
and that they were fit for habitation. While
I can certainly appreciate that many people
do not want to live somewhere
with dirty carpets, the standard is not that of perfection.
 
Determinations:
 
23. 
Therefore, I find that the Landlord
failed to meet the Landlord's obligations under
subsection 20(1) of the Act to maintain the rental unit, specifically the
windows.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
24.  The Landlord shall pay to the Tenants $587.60 which is
the reasonable out-of-pocket expenses the Tenants has incurred for window cleaning. These expenses were incurred
because of the Landlord's failure to repair maintain the rental unit.
 
25.   
The total amount the Landlord owes the Tenants
is $587.60
 
26.  The Landlord shall pay the Tenants the full amount
owing by February
22, 2022.
 
27.  If the Landlord
does not pay the Tenants
the full amount
owing by February
22, 2022 the Landlord will owe interest.
This will be simple interest calculated from February 23, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the outstanding balance.
 
28. 
The Tenants
have the right,
at any time, to collect
the full amount owing or any balance outstanding under this order.
 
 
February 11th, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Jagger Benham
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Head Office
777 Bay Street, 12th Floor
Toronto Ontario M5G2E5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

