Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-11
File number:	
HOT-07401-20

Citation:	Pasculli v Sharif, 2022 CanLII 106822 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jszx5>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: HOT-07401-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


10394 KEELE
STREET MAPLE ON L6A4M9


 




Between:


Cassandra Pasculli


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Muhammad Sharif


Landlord



 
 
Cassandra Pasculli (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Muhammad Sharif (the 'Landlord')
harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the Tenant and
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or residential complex by the Tenant or by a member of the
Tenant's household.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on September 23, 2021.
The Tenant and the Landlord attended the hearing.
Determinations:
 
1.     The Tenant filed this T2 application on May 12, 2020 alleging
substantial interference and harassment.
 
Limitation Period
 
2.    
One of the Tenant’s
allegations is that the Landlord’s e-mail to the Tenant
on January 2, 2018 about not closing the garage door constitutes substantial
interference.
 
3.     This allegation is out of time, as subsection 29(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 provides that “[n]o application
may be made under subsection (1) more than one year after the day the alleged
conduct giving rise to the application occurred.”
 
4.    
This aspect of the Tenant’s application will therefore be dismissed.
 
Legislation
 
5.    
Sections 22 and 23 of the Act provide:




 
22  A landlord shall not
at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit and before the
day on which an order evicting the tenant is executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all
usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.
 
23  A landlord shall not harass,
obstruct, coerce, threaten
or interfere with a tenant.
 
Substantial Interference
 
6.    
The Tenant asserts that the
Landlord substantially interfered with the Tenant’s reasonably enjoyment of the
rental unit by: restricting or placing conditions on the Tenant’s use of the laundry in October 2019 and March 2020; trying
to restrict the Tenant’s boyfriend from attending the rental unit and the residential complex;
and, watching the Tenant’s boyfriend using video surveillance.
 
Laundry
 
7.     The substance of the Tenant’s issue is that the
Landlord reduced or discontinued access to the laundry facilities. The proper
way to pursue this issue is to bring an application under subsection 130(1) of
the Act. As the Tenant did not file such an application, the Tenant’s complaint respecting the reduced
or discontinued access
to the laundry facilities
will be dismissed.
 
Boyfriend
 
8.     The Tenant testified that the Landlord’s conduct in
trying to restrict her boyfriend from attending the residential complex and the
rental unit interfered with her enjoyment of the rental unit. The Landlord’s position was that he was entitled to do so because the tenancy
agreement limited the number of occupants to one person. The Landlord also
testified that there were concerns about the behaviour of the Tenant’s
boyfriend. These reasons explain why I find that the Landlord substantially
interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit.
 
9.    
It was uncontested that the Landlord
sought to restrict
the Tenant’s boyfriend from attending the rental unit and the residential complex.
 
10.  On November 30, 2019 the Landlord wrote to the Tenant
that “I am watching one additional person
(your boyfriend) is living with you and he is all
the time entering into the house and apartment”, asserting that
the Tenant has made the apartment overcrowded, has caused an unjustified
increase in utilities and has made the family of the Landlord’s son feel
unsecure due to the entrance of an unauthorized person in our house. The
Landlord writes that the Condominium Corporation is “monitoring and taking the
serious notice of his frequent entrances (all day and night)” and informs the
Tenant that he is requesting “your boyfriend to be away from the house as he is
not our tenant”. The Landlord gave the Tenant an N5 Notice of Termination dated
February 9, 2020 asserting that the tenancy
will terminate effective
February 29, 2020 unless the Tenant reduces
the number of people living
in the rental unit to 1 within the next 7-days. This notice
relies on




 
clause 5 of the tenancy
agreement, which limits the occupancy of the rental unit to 1 person. On March 17, 2020, the Landlord writes
to the Tenant asserting that the
Tenant’s boyfriend is neither owner nor tenant, asserting that the Tenant’s
boyfriend is an “illegal occupant” and that his “acts/movements are considered
as trespassing the property of
the condominium”.
 
11.  The Landlord, as a person in the business of providing
a rental unit, knew or ought to have known that he cannot rely on the tenancy agreement to restrict the Tenant’s ability to have roommates or guests.
 
12.  In substance, section 22 of the Act codifies the
covenant of quiet enjoyment. The Divisional
Court’s decision in Cunningham v. Whitby Christian
Non-Profit Housing Corp., 1997 CanLII 12126 (ON SC)
confirms that the covenant of quiet enjoyment includes the right to have
guests, including for all or parts of a day or evening and overnight. This
decision also confirms that a landlord only has the right under the Trespass
to Property Act, R.S.O. 1990, c. T.21 to prohibit a person from entering a
residential complex if the person is not an invitee of the Tenant. Pursuant to
section 3(1) of the Act, this provision applies despite any other Act and
despite any agreement or waiver to the contrary. Pursuant to subsection 4(1) of the Act, a provision in a tenancy
agreement this provision is void. In TSL-50289-14 (Re),
2015 CanLII 69070 (ON LTB) a Member of the Board explained:
 
A landlord cannot dictate to a
tenant about their guests or roommate. Rather, a landlord has the right to
terminate a tenancy where a tenant permits a guest or another occupant of the
unit on the property and the behaviour of the guest or occupant substantially interferes with the reasonable enjoyment
of the landlord or another tenant.
 
See, additionally, TET-98683-19 (Re),
2019 CanLII 87736
(ON LTB), where
a Vice-Chair of the Board
held: “Tenants are entitled to take in roommates without a landlord’s
permission as a result of the right to reasonable enjoyment.”
 
13.  In this case, the Landlord
could not rely on the tenancy agreement
to restrict the Tenant’s
right to have guests and roommates. Any provision in the agreement which
purported to give the Landlord
this right is void. As the Tenant’s
boyfriend had the Tenant’s permission to attend the rental unit and
the residential complex, the Tenant’s boyfriend was not a trespasser. In circumstances where the Landlord
mischaracterized the Tenant’s
boyfriend as a trespasser, sought to restrict his access to the rental
unit and threatened eviction if the Tenant failed to comply, I accept that the
Landlord’s actions substantially interfered with the Tenant’s reasonably
enjoyment of the rental unit.
 
14.  For the sake of completeness, communications from the Landlord and the condominium corporation appear to assert
that the Tenant was somehow in violation of the condominium’s by-laws. Although
not strictly from the Landlord, a June 26, 2020 memorandum from the Board of the condominium corporation – of which the Landlord is a member – notes that the Landlord has
reported that the Tenant’s boyfriend is living in the rental unit “since last
many years without the consent of the Landlord”. The memorandum asserts that
the boyfriend’s “acts/movements are considered as




 
trespassing the property of the
condominium”. Likewise, a June 28, 2020 memorandum from the Board of the
condominium corporation asserts that the rental unit has been rented to a second
tenant, asserts a violation of the condominium’s occupancy standards
and informs that Tenant that she is advised to “take the necessary steps to get
the basement vacated from the second tenant as early as possible so that the
use of the house in an accordance with Article XII”.
 
15.  Although these letters
were issued after
the Tenant filed her application, and do not factor
in my the above analysis, Article XII states that parcels of tied land shall
not be used other than in compliance
with the occupancy standards contained in a by-law passed by the council of the
municipality in which the land of the corporation is situated and that parcels
of tied land shall not be occupied by more persons that the maximum occupancy
for each parcel of tied land based on the maximum occupancy for which the
parcels of tied land are designed as determined by the Board. No city by-laws
or Board determinations were presented. As
such, I cannot find that the by-laws provide a defence
for the Landlord’s conduct.
 
Surveillance
 
16.  The substance of the Tenant’s claim is an invasion of
privacy related to the Landlord’s use of video cameras. The Tenant is concerned
with the Landlord’s placement of the cameras in the residential complex and how
the Landlord used these cameras to record her
and her boyfriend. In support, the Tenant referred me to photographs of the cameras. The Landlord’s evidence
also included many videos taken from these cameras. Together, the evidence of both parties
confirms that that the cameras
are found in the garage of
the residential complex, in the common area hallway and that there is also a
camera trained on the parking lot of the residential complex.
 
17.  While the Board has accepted that the improper use of
video cameras can constitute substantial interference or harassment, the Board’s jurisprudence confirms that the key
question is whether the Tenant has a reasonable expectation of privacy in the
circumstances: Flengas v Anapolis, 2021 CanLII 130002 (ON LTB) at para.
3; Singh v Jason, 2020 CanLII 118004 (ON LTB) at paras. 18 and 20; and, NOL-24584-16
(Re), 2016 CanLII 106379 (ON LTB) at para. 39.
 
18.  In this case, my finding is that the Tenant does not
have a reasonable expectation of privacy in the garage, in the common area hallway
or in the parking lot. These areas are
not for the exclusive use of the Tenant. In circumstances where there was no
evidence that the Landlord’s cameras looked into the Tenant’s unit or record
areas of exclusive use, my conclusion is that the Landlord’s use of security
cameras in the residential complex does not constitute a substantial
interference.
 
Harassment
 
19.  The term harassment is not defined
in the Act, however, Board
Interpretation Guideline 6, Tenant Rights, provides a
summary of the Board’s jurisprudence and indicates that the Board has often
adopted the following or similar definitions: “engaging in a course of




 
vexatious comment or conduct
that is known or ought
reasonably to be known
to be unwelcome.”
 
20.  The Tenant asserts that the Landlord’s conduct in
trying to impose an illegal rent increase, in issuing
an N5 notice of termination with false claims
and in sending multiple e-mails asking when the Tenant
was going to move out after the Landlord gave the Tenant an N12 notice of
termination constitute harassment.
 
21.  The Landlord’s conduct respecting the issuance of the
N12 does not constitute harassment for the following reasons. The Landlord gave
this notice to the Tenant in March 2020. Following this, the Landlord sent the
Tenant e-mails on April 2, 2020, April 3,
2020, April 9, 2020, April 13, 2020
and April 18, 2020. These e-mails inquire about the Tenant’s plans for vacating
the rental unit. The Tenant replied on April 27, 2020, indicating that she was
laid off and would not be moving out on May 23, 2020. The Landlord replied
that he was ready to cooperate with the Tenant
to find a mutually agreed upon date. The Landlord
followed-up again on May 2, 2020, May 7, 2020, May 12, 2020,
May 17, 2020, May 23, 2020 and June 4, 2020.
 
22.  Had the Tenant informed the Landlord that the
Landlord’s e-mails were unwelcome or that
she did not want to negotiate a mutually agreeable termination date there may
have been some basis to
find that the number of e-mails was excessive and that
the Landlord’s conduct
constitutes harassment. However, there was no evidence that the Tenant informed
the Landlord that these e-mails were unwelcome or that she had no intention of
vacating the rental unit until, for example, there was a hearing before the
Board. In the circumstances, including the generally polite tone of the Landlord’s e-mails to the
Tenant, I am not satisfied that the Tenant has proven on the balance of
probabilities that the Landlord knew or ought to have known that his conduct
was unwelcome. This aspect of the Tenant’s claim will therefore be dismissed.
 
23.  With respect to the Landlord’s attempt to impose an
illegal rent increase, the Tenant testified that the Landlord called the Tenant
to his office for a meeting in October 2019 and then sought to raise the rent from $800.00 to $900.00, which is a 12.5% increase
and beyond the rent increase permitted by the Act. The Landlord did not
deny that he sought to increase the rent by $100.00 and I accept that this
occurred, as this is also consistent with the Tenant’s e-mail of October 5,
2019 in which the Tenant states that she cannot afford $900.00 for rent and in which the Tenant informs the
Landlord of the guideline rent increase amount for 2019. The Landlord’s reply
of the same date was to ask the Tenant to pay $872.00, which by the Landlord’s
calculation was the amount he could have charged if he had raised the rent in
accordance with the Act since the tenancy commenced. This too was a proposal
for an illegal rent increase of 9.00%.
The Landlord’s reply also indicated
that he would only discuss these issues in person, stated that the Tenant
should not expect any reply from him through e-mail and invited the Tenant to
come see him in person, noting that he would “be very much grateful if you
kindly bring the calculation of an additional person living with you for the
last 5 years and future as well”.




 
24.  The Landlord denied
that his conduct
constituted harassment because
the rent was not
actually raised. In support of this, the Landlord introduced the Tenant’s rent
cheques, which confirmed that the Tenant did not pay the increased rent the
Landlord sought.
 
25.  In my view, the Landlord
is in the business of providing rental
units and knew or ought to have known that he could not increase
the rent beyond the guideline. Once the Tenant refused to pay the request for
an illegal rent increase and referred the Landlord to the requirements of the
Act, the Landlord knew or ought to have known that requesting another illegal
rent increase and putting pressure on the Tenant to propose her own increase
because of the guest she was entitled to have was unwelcome.
 
26.  With respect to the Landlord’s N5 notice of
termination dated February 9, 2020, this notice asserts that the Tenant is in breach of the tenancy agreement and overconsuming utilities due to her
boyfriend’s presence at the rental unit. The N5 also alleges that the Tenant is
storing and stacking materials in front of the machine room in the residential complex.
 
27.  As noted in Board Interpretation Guideline 6:
 
Sometimes a tenant objects to a
notice of termination or other document served by the landlord because they
believe the contents are untrue. However, if the landlord was acting in good
faith, and did not serve the notice
for an improper purpose it will not constitute substantial interference with the tenant's reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. See for example: TST-67363-15
(Re), 2016 CanLII 71230 (ON LTB), CET-68043-17 (Re), 2017 CanLII
70488 (ON LTB).
 
28.  To understand the context of the allegation that the
Tenant was storing and stacking materials in front of the machine room, it may
be helpful to note that the allegation concerns the use of a common
space where the laundry facilities are located. The Tenant
takes the position that she is allowed to do the laundry when she wants and the
Landlord takes the position that the Tenant is only allowed to do the laundry
on Sundays. As I understood the Tenant’s argument, the Tenant claimed that the
Landlord included false allegations on the N5 in response to the illegal rent
increase, the presence of the Tenant’s
boyfriend and issues regarding the laundry facilities.
 
29.  The Tenant’s testimony, which was not put to cross-examination and which I accept, was that it was the Landlord’s son who was
stacking items in the common area and that this was making it difficult for her
to access the laundry facilities provided to her under the tenancy agreement.
 
30.  The Landlord provided no evidence in support of the N5
assertion that the Tenant was storing and stacking materials in front of the
machine room. Rather, the Landlord’s testimony
was that the Tenant was throwing her son’s belongings here and
there. As this is not the issue specified on the N5, whether or not the Tenant engaged
in this conduct is irrelevant.
 
31.  What was relevant was that the Landlord’s testimony
was inconsistent in several important respects. The Landlord first
testified that the tenancy agreement
required the




 
Tenant to do laundry on Sundays.
In cross-examination, when confronted with the fact that the tenancy agreement
provides no such restriction, the Landlord asserted that this restriction is
pursuant to an oral agreement. This inconsistency undermined the Landlord’s credibility. Additionally, the Landlord
first testified that the area in question is a common area and that everyone
has to keep this area clean. The Landlord then admitted
that although his son has private laundry facilities the Landlord’s son left
items in the common area but that he was entitled to do so because his son is
entitled to use 86% of the common area. The Landlord provided no evidence to
corroborate his assertion that his son was entitled to use 86% of the common
area in circumstances and the Tenant’s tenancy agreement does not restrict her
access to and use of the common area in any way. This inconsistency undermined
the Landlord’s credibility.
 
32.  Although the Landlord filed 10 evidentiary
submissions, including multiple photographs and videos, this evidence was irrelevant
for several reasons. First, many of the photographs and videos were taken after
the Tenant filed her application and events that occurred after the Tenant
filed the application cannot provide an explanation for the Landlord’s prior
conduct. Additionally, photographs and videos taken before the Tenant filed her
application were either not responsive to the issue raised by the Tenant on
application or the allegations on the notices
of termination. This includes the videos taken on March 14, 2020, March 24, 2020,
April 16, 2020 and April 26, 2020.
 
33.  In my view, the best evidence before me was the
Tenant’s evidence, which did not suffer from the same inconsistencies as the
Landlord’s. This evidence supports my conclusion that the real reason
for the Landlord’s claim
respecting the use of the common areas was the dispute
that arose between the Tenant and the Landlord’s son. Although the Landlord’s
son had his own laundry facilities, he was using the common laundry facilities
and leaving his belongings in the common area and that was impeding the
Tenant’s access to and use of these facilities. Despite the Landlord’s son’s
use of the common area as his private space, the Landlord
did not seek to terminate
his son’s tenancy.
In the circumstances, the
Landlord’s disparate treatment of his son and the Tenant leads me to conclude
that the Landlord was motivated by an improper purpose.
 
34.  With respect to the remaining allegations on the N5,
the Landlord first attempted to raise the Tenant’s rent beyond the guideline and
attempted to put pressure on the Tenant to pay more rent because of her
boyfriend’s attendance at the rental unit. The N5 notice follows this attempt.
There was no evidence that there was overconsumption of utilities and no
evidence that the Tenant was in breach of a municipal by-law or a condominium
determination. The Landlord
did not file an application to the Board based on the conduct outlined on the N5, which I would have expected if the Landlord
was truly concerned
with the Tenant’s behaviour. In the circumstances, it is in my view
clear that the Landlord’s true motivations were financial.
 
35.  The Landlord’s attempt to impose an illegal rent
increase despite the Tenant’s protest combined with the Landlord’s attempt to
terminate the tenancy for no proper purpose constitute conduct that the
Landlord knew or ought to have known were unwelcome by the Tenant.
The Tenant has therefore proven harassment on the balance
of probabilities.




 
36.  For the sake of completeness, I did not consider any
of the Tenant’s allegations and evidence respecting incidents that occurred after
the Tenant filed
the application. The Tenant did not request an amendment
of the application and these issues were not properly before me.
 
Remedies
 
37.  The Tenant seeks two remedies: an order from the Board
requiring the Landlord
to stop harassing the Tenant;
and, a fine.
 
38.  The Tenant’s first request is moot, as the Tenant
has vacated the rental unit and there
is no longer a landlord and tenant relationship between the parties
 
39.  With respect to the Tenant’s
request to impose
a fine, Board
Interpretation Guideline 16, Administrative Fines, states
that an administrative fine is a remedy to be used to encourage compliance with
the Act, and to deter landlords from engaging in similar activity in the
future. The Guideline further states that that this remedy is not normally
imposed unless a landlord has shown a blatant disregard
for the Act and other remedies
will not provide adequate deterrence and compliance.
 
40.  Not all of the Landlord’s conduct warrants a fine. I accept that the Landlord
may simply have been unaware
of his inability to restrict the Tenant’s ability to have guests and roommates.
That being said, attempting to impose an illegal rent increase after being
informed of requirements of the Act and issuing a notice of termination for no
proper purpose constitutes a blatant
disregard of the Act. A
fine of $1,000.00 is appropriate
to encourage compliance with the Act going forward.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord shall pay to the Landlord
and Tenant Board an administrative fine in the amount
of $1,000.00 by February 22, 2022.
 
 




February 11, 2022 Date Issued
Head Office
777 Bay Street, 12th Floor
Toronto Ontario M5G2E5



 

 
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board




 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

