Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-14
File number:	
HOT-09668-21

Citation:	Paranuik v  Verma, 2022 CanLII 61516 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jqg46>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31 and 57
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: HOT-09668-21
TNT-28815-20
 
 
 
 



In the matter
of:


3402, 15 GRENVILLE STREET TORONTO ON M4Y0B9


 




Between:


Kyle Paranuik


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Rajinder
Verma


Landlord



 
 
 
Kyle Paranuik
(the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that Rajinder Verma
(the 'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with
the Tenant and substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or by a member of the Tenant's household
(the “T2” application)
 
Kyle Paranuik
(the 'Tenant') also applied for an order
determining that Rajinder Verma
(the 'Landlord') gave a notice of termination in bad faith (the “T5”
application)
 
This application was heard via video conference
on November 26, 2021.
 
The Tenant,
the Tenant’s Legal Representative, Dan McIntyre and the Landlord’s Representative Atul Verma
(‘A.V’) and the Landlord’s Legal
Representative, Reginald Bent attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Tenant’s T2
application alleges the Landlord harassed the tenants or substantially
interfered with his reasonable enjoyment
by threatening and aggressively pressuring the Tenant
to vacate the rental unit so the Landlord’s son could move in. The Tenant’s T5 application alleges that
the Landlord served an N12 notice of termination in bad faith.
 
2.    
The Tenant testified
that he paid $1,934.00 per month in rent and when the rental unit was listed for rent after he vacated the rental unit it
was at a higher rate of $2,550.00
per month.
 
3.    
The Tenant
testified that during
his tenancy, he was repeatedly contacted by the Landlord
and his son (A.V.) asking him to vacate the rental unit.




4.    
The Tenant
stated that he received a number of text and email communications from the Landlord
stating that A.V. was wanting to move into the rental unit:
 
•        
On August 27, 2019, the
Landlord’s son texted the Tenant stating that the rental unit was purchased for his personal
use and that he needs
the property for his own use: “I would like to advise you that
because of your actions, I have had to deal with more pain than anything
because you refuse to vacate the apartment for my own needs which is what we
bought the property for” and “…the question still remains are you going to
vacate the property as we asked you to do in March? Because I do need to move
in as I cannot commute as much anymore, I need the property”.
 
•        
On September 22, 2019,
an email communication was sent stating that discussions needed to take place regarding the Landlord’s son moving in: “…I
would like to talk to you as soon as possible as I want my son to move in…”.
 
•        
On October 9, 2019, an
email communication was sent requesting discussions with respect to the
Landlord wanting the Tenant to vacate the rental unit: “I do need the resident as I’ve advised you many times before for myself to move into, so please let me know when your [sic]
free to meet so we can finally
discuss this”
 
•        
An email communication
dated November 24, 2019 from the Landlord to the Tenant stated that the Tenant
had not responded to the Landlord’s emails and asked when the Tenant
would move out so his son could move into the rental
unit.
 
5.    
The Landlord
stated in his November 24, 2019 email communication to the Tenant that
the Tenant had not responded to any of the communications the Landlord had sent
or provided any courtesy regarding meeting to discuss the issues.
 
6.    
The Tenant conversed
with the Landlord on December 8, 2019 requesting that an N12 notice of termination form be served on him to which the Landlord
replied on December 27, 2019 that he would comply
with an N12 notice
of termination. Despite
the Landlord stating that he
would comply, an N12 notice of termination was never served on the
Tenant however
the Tenant did receive one month’s compensation as required under the
Act upon vacating
the rental unit.
 
7.    
While not wanting to
vacate the renal unit but acting on that information from the Landlord, on December 28, 2019
the Tenant agreed to vacate
the rental unit so that the
Landlord’s son could move in
and proceeded to find new accommodations.
The Tenant did locate and purchased an identical unit on a different floor in
the same building. The Tenant vacated the rental unit on January 15, 2020.
 
8.    
The Tenant stated that
he lived in constant fear and was very stressed while living in the rental unit
as the Landlord had told him
repeatedly that his son was going
to move in and because of those statements, it created additional anxiety
as the Tenant was terrified
that he would get a notice or a Sheriff would attend the rental unit to
evict him.




9.    
A few months after the Tenant vacated the rental unit, he
saw a posting on social medial
that the rental unit that he had vacated was up for rent and was now at a much
higher rent than what he was paying. Indeed, evidence provided by the Tenant at
the hearing showed a rental listing dated September 17, 2020 for the rental
unit identifying rent at
$2,550.00 per month.
 
10.  The Landlord’s Representative (‘A.V.’) is
the son of the Landlord. A.V.
testified that he resided alone in Brampton in single family detached home but
was planning to reside in the rental unit. A.V.
testified that as a result of a very serious motor vehicle collision, he
required extensive and substantial medical
treatment which was to take place at facilities
in the proximity of the rental unit and the resulting court case from the motor
vehicle collision was also taking place
downtown Toronto. A.V. stated that if he was to reside in the rental unit, the commute
would be lessened and it would not be so hard on him to travel to those
appointments.
 
11.  A.V. testified that he did not immediately
move into the rental unit when the Tenant vacated on January 15, 2020 as he had a lot of items to move into the apartment
and had to make arrangements. A.V.
also did not move into the rental unit after the Tenant vacated because the
COVID pandemic started and the number of cases were so high. Further, A.V.
explained that the rental unit was in a condominium building with a number of
individuals utilizing the elevators and hallways, as he felt that he more
susceptible to COVID due to his weakened immune system and his medical condition, he was fearful of
living in the condominium building. He
decided to temporarily stay in Brampton and reside alone in his single family
dwelling as he felt it was safer.
 
12.  A.V. stated that despite a high mortgage
rate, no-one is residing
in the rental unit even as at the date of this hearing because
once COVID cases lower, he does want to eventually move into the rental
unit; however, he is still very worried
about COVID and the pandemic continues on.          When
asked why the rental unit was posted for rent and then withdrawn from the
market, A.V. claims that he and his father were “testing the waters” and just
wanted to know how much rent they are losing by having the rental unit remain
empty.
 
13.  A.V. testified that the Tenant
was not forced
to leave the rental unit as he was planning
to move into the rental unit in March, 2019 but the Tenant sent
post-dated cheques in an attempt to extend his time and not leave the rental
unit.
 
The Law/Analysis:
 
T5 Application
 
14. 
The Landlord’s Legal Representative stated
that as there was no N12 Notice
of
Termination
served, the Tenant’s T5 proceeding cannot proceed. The Tenant’s Legal Representative countered by relying
on section 57(1)
and section 212 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the “Act”).
 
15.  Section 57(1) of the Act establishes
a three-part test. In order to be
successful in his T5 application, the Tenant
must establish all three of the requirements of subsection 57(1)(a) on a balance of probabilities:




 
•        
First, that the Landlord
gave a Notice of Termination under
section 48 of the Act
(the N12 notice)
and the notice
was given in bad faith;
 
•        
Secondly, that the Tenants
vacated the rental
unit as a result of the N12 notice or Board order based on the N12 notice;
 
•        
Thirdly, that the person named in the N12 notice did not move into the rental unit within a reasonable time after the
Tenant’s vacated.
 
16.  Section
212 of the Act says
that “substantial compliance with this Act
respecting the contents
of forms, notices or documents is sufficient”.
 
17.  It is noted that the Landlord did not serve
the Tenant with an N12 Notice of
Termination. However, section 202 of the Act permits the Board to ascertain the real substance of any transaction:
 
In making findings on an application, the Board shall ascertain the real substance
of all transactions and activities relating to a residential complex or
a rental unit and the good faith of the participants and in doing so,
 
(a)  
may disregard the outward form of a transaction or the separate corporate existence of
participants; and
 
(b)  
may have regard to the pattern
of activities relating
to the residential complex or the rent unit.
 
18.  The Landlord emailed
the Tenant on December 27, 2019 confirming a conversation he had with the Tenant:
 
“I wanted to send a
transcript of our verbal conversation over the phone following
your email message regarding confirmation and acknowledgement to end your
tenancy at Condominium Suite – 3402, 15 Grenville Street
Toronto, M4Y 0B9. As
mentioned during our phone conversation you are going to move out the property
on January 15, 2020. I am in complete
acknowledgement with the arrangement stated during our conversation since I
want to use the property for personal and family use. As per the tenancy
contract I affirm that I will pay one month rent
$1934.00 CAD with the satisfactory inspection of the unit at the time you hand over
possession back to myself on the said date (15th January 2020)”
 
19. 
In this case, the Landlord clearly
told the Tenant he
had to vacate the rental
unit because the Landlord’s family member was moving in. It was on that basis that the Tenant
moved out.
 
20. 
It would be unfair to allow
the Landlord to circumvent the Act or
escape liability simply because he failed
to comply with the correct
procedures. Thus, I find that the Landlord
gave the Tenant a notice of termination for the purposes
of section 57(1)(a)
of the Act.




21.  On an application to the Board, the person
who alleges a particular event occurred has the burden of proof to establish
that it is more likely
than not that their version
of events is true. In this application, the burden
typically falls on the tenant to establish that the notice of termination was served in bad faith.
 
22.  As stated earlier,
section 57(1) of the
Act establishes a three-part test and I am satisfied that the Tenant has met all the
requirements to meet that test. I
find that the Tenant moved as a result of the Landlord’s bad faith notice.
 
Rebuttable Presumption of Bad Faith
 
23.  The Tenant’s application asserts that the Landlord
served the N12 notice in bad faith
as he had listed the rental unit for rent and never resided in the
rental unit for residential purposes, for a period of at least one year.
 
24.  Subsections 57(5) and 57(6)
of the Act establishes a rebuttable presumption of bad faith on the following ground:
 
(5)  
For the purposes of an
application under clause (1)(a), it is presumed, unless the contrary is
proven on a balance of probabilities, that a landlord gave a notice of termination under section
48 in bad faith, if at any time during the period described in subsection
(6) the landlord,
… (a) advertises the rental unit for rent;
(6)  
The period
referred to in subsection (5) is the period that,
(a)  
begins on the day the landlord
gives the notice of termination
under section 48; and
(b)  
ends one year after the former
tenant vacates the rental unit.
25.  A.V. did not dispute that the rental unit
was for listed for rent a few months after the Tenant vacated the rental
unit but denies that he did not genuinely
intend to reside
in the rental unit when it
became vacant. He alleges that due to
the COVID pandemic, his circumstances changed so that he decided to stay safely
in his home in Brampton. Further, A.V. states that the Landlord merely
advertised the rental unit for rent to determine what monthly rent he could
have received.
 
26.  I am not satisfied that A.V. did not move
into the rental unit because of the COVID pandemic in mid January or February,
2020. It is well known that at that
period of time, the COVID virus had not yet reached the pandemic stage, the
severity of the virus was not yet known until the end of February/early March,
2020. It was at that point that
restrictions took place with subsequent government imposed
lockdowns starting at mid to end of March, 2020.
 
27.  The Board also heard that A.V. had a lot of
items to pack and that is why he delayed moving into the rental unit upon it
becoming vacant. It is noted that the
Landlord had notice from the Tenant that the unit was to be vacant as at
January 15, 2020 and therefore, if A.V. truly wanted
to move into the rental
unit, he had plenty of time to start
packing up his belongings and making arrangements to move.




 
28. 
The next step in the legal analysis is to determine what remedy should
be awarded to the
Tenant as a result of the Landlord’s breach of the Act.
 
29. 
In the T5 application,
the Tenant sought an order for the Landlord to compensate him for the difference in expenses he incurred between the rental unit and the new
condominium unit he purchased. In this regard,
the Board must consider section
57(3) of the Act which references section 57(1) of the Act:
 
The orders
referred to in subsection (1) are the following:
 
i.  all or any portion of any increased rent that the former tenant
has incurred or will incur
for a one-year period after vacating the rental unit; and
 
ii.  reasonable out-of-pocket moving,
storage and other like expenses
that the former tenant has
incurred or will incur.
 
30.  As the Tenant
purchased a condominium and did not rent a new unit after vacating the rental unit, the only relevant
portion of subsection 57(3) of the Act that the Board can consider would
be an order for the Landlord to pay the Tenant’s “reasonable out-of- pocket
moving, storage and other like expenses that the former tenant has incurred.”
 
31.  With respect to “reasonable out-of-pocket moving, storage and other like expenses”, the Tenant testified that the moving
costs he claimed on the T5 application were in fact not his. His parents travelled to assist the Tenant
with moving and feels that his parents should be compensation for their
travelling expenses and gas totalling $235.74.
 
32.  Gas receipts dated January 8, 9, 13 (two
receipts) and January 17, 2020 were provided as evidence. None of these expenses were corroborated
by any other evidence, particularly, the Tenant’s parents did not testify. The
Tenant did not produce and file affidavits or statements from them. Although I
have no doubt the Tenant got some help with his move, I have no way of
determining how five trips to assist the Tenant in moving was warranted. Given the lack of easily
available corroborating evidence
and the fact the
Tenant bears the burden of proving his out of pocket expenses on the balance of
probabilities, I am not prepared to accept evidence without anything further,
so I decline to order any of the additional out of pocket expenses claimed.
 
33.  The Tenant also seeks compensation for the
difference between his rent and his mortgage
payments, taxes, fees, disbursements and costs related
to his purchased unit. This type of relief, I belief, does
not encapsulate the relief that the Board can consider pursuant to section
57(3) of the Act. In my view,
by using the qualifier “reasonable”, the Legislature signalled its intent that any and all losses suffered
by a former tenant are not
automatically compensable. In my
opinion, the costs incurred by the Tenant
in choosing to purchase a condominium upon vacating the rental unit does not
meet the spirit or intent of the Legislation and will be denied.




34.  While I find based on the evidence
and submissions and on a balance of probabilities,
that the Landlord did serve an N12 notice of termination in bad faith, there
are no remedies that will be awarded to the Tenant.
 
T2 Application:
 
35.  In response to the COVID
pandemic, limitation periods
were suspended from March 16, 2020 to September 13, 2020, inclusively,
(for a total of 26 weeks) except those under the Construction Act. Limitation periods commenced again on September
14, 2020. The regulation that prescribed the
suspension, Ontario Regulation 73/20, provided that “the temporary suspension
period shall not be counted” toward the limitation period.
 
36.  Within the Board’s context, a “limitation
period” refers to the time period within which an application/motion/request must be filed with the Board. Section
29(2) of the Act states:
 
No application may be made under subsection (1) more than one year after
the day the alleged conduct
giving rise to the application occurred.
 
37.  Considering that the Tenant filed
his T2 application on February
21, 2021, the Board will consider allegations from August,
2019 to the date the Tenant vacated on January 15, 2020.
 
38.  Section 22 of the
Act states:
 
A landlord
shall not at anytime during a tenant's occupancy of a rental unit and before
the day on which an order evicting the tenant is executed substantially
interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all
usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household
 
39.  Section 23 of the Act
states: “A landlord
shall not harass,
obstruct, coerce, threaten
or interfere with a tenant.”
 
40.  There is no definition of “harassment” under
the Act but generally speaking harassment
is usually considered to be a course of conduct that a reasonable person knows or ought to know would be unwelcome.
 
41.  The conduct need not be more than one
instance and a tenant is not required to demonstrate a pattern of behavior in order to show that a landlord
has breached the Act.
 
42.  The evidence was that the Landlord and/or
his son messaged
the Tenant almost monthly regarding moving from the rental
unit on August 27, 2019, September 22, October 9 and November 24, 2019.
 
43.  I am satisfied, on a balance of
probabilities, that the Landlord knew, or ought to have known, that these threats
of eviction would have been unwelcome by the Tenant
and as a result, these texts constitute harassment pursuant to section
23 of the Act.




44.  I am further satisfied that these
communications caused the Tenant to fear for the security of his tenure
and the though of losing
his rental unit caused him stress and anxiety.
 
45.  As a result,
I have concluded that a lump sum rent
abatement in the amount of $750.00 is sufficient to compensate the Tenant
for the stress caused by the Landlord’s harassing and threatening
communications. I believe that this
amount is consistent with the evidence of impact on the Tenant of the
Landlord’s breaches.
 
46.  This order contains
all of the reasons in this matter
and no further reasons will be issued.
 
It
is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenant
the amount of $750.00.
 
2.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenant the amount of $53.00 for his filing fee for the T2
application.
 
3.    
The total amount the Landlord shall pay to the Tenant is $803.00
which shall be paid by February 14, 2022.
 
4.    
If the Landlord does
not pay the Tenant the full amount owing by February 14, 2022, the Landlord will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from February
15, 2022 at 2.00% annually on
the balance outstanding.
 
5.    
The Tenant has the right,
at any time, to collect
the full amount
owing or any balance outstanding under this order.
 
 
January 14, 2022 Date Issued
 
Head Office
777 Bay Street, 12th Floor
Toronto Ontario M5G2E5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

