Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-14
File number:	
NOL-44246-21

Citation:	Baril v Bourque, 2022 CanLII 106604 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jszz0>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: NOL-44246-21
 
 



In the
  matter of:


130 MARSHALL PARK DRIVE NORTH
  BAY ON P1A3L2


 




Between:


Marc Baril


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Daniel Bourque


Tenant



 
 
 
Marc Baril (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Daniel
Bourque (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the
rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The Landlord has
also applied for an order requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlord for
the damage.
 
This application was heard in Passcode:
988 4914 7021# on February
7, 2022. The Landlord’s
representative Roselle Greuter, and the Tenant, attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Landlords served an N5 notice on the Tenant
claiming the Tenant wilfully or negligently caused damage to the rental unit. The Landlord is seeking $5,000.00 in
compensation. The notice states that the carpets
in the bedroom are damaged
and need to be changed, the
unit needs to be repainted, that there is damage to the laminate flooring and the kitchen
vinyl flooring both need to be replaced. There is also an extreme cat urine smell.
 
2.    
The Landlord evidence shows
photographs inside the Tenant’s unit. There
were no witnesses of other
evidence to support
the Landlord’s allegations and the Landlord’s representative has not been in
the unit.
 
3.    
The Tenant has lived in the unit
for approximately two years and denies the extent of the claim. The Tenant does acknowledge the carpet needs
to be cleaned and he testified he is ready to have the carpets cleaned
and pay for the cost of the cleaning.
 
4.     The Tenant denied the other flooring is damaged. The photographs do not show visible damage to the laminate
or vinyl flooring. As there is not independent verification, I cannot determine that the Tenant has
caused damage to these floors.




 
5.    
The photographs show that the unit it quite cluttered. The Tenant agrees
and testified he will clean it to the required ordinary
state of cleanliness.
 
6.     The Tenant also agreed there
was a smell of cat urine. This was because
the kitty litter had not been changed. The Tenant agreed to ensure this is done.
 
7.     The Tenant also agreed that his cat caused damage to
the bathroom door as shown in the photographs.
This was not claimed in the Landlord’s application, but the Tenant
agreed that he would repair
the damage. As it was not claimed
I cannot order this to be
done by the Tenant.
 
8.    
This application was filed based on damage and not substantial interference. The issues that can be dealt with in this
order, apart from the laminate and vinyl flooring for which I have already
made my determinations, are the carpet and
wall paint. The clutter and cat urine smell are not damage.
 
9.     Based on the amount of time the Tenant has resided in the unit,
and the lack of evidence, I find the Tenant should not be
held responsible for the cost of painting the walls.
 
10.  This is a two-bedroom unit. The carpeting is in the bedrooms. The Landlord’s representative did not know the age of the
carpets for me to determine if they have reached their useful life or how old
they may be. As a result, it is
difficult to determine a replacement value. The Tenant did testify that they do not look too old, so I assume they were in fairly good shape when the
Tenant moved into the unit.
 
11.  As the Tenant has agreed he will have the carpets cleaned I
will order this to be done. If the
carpets cannot be cleaned, the Tenant will be ordered to pay a reasonable cost
to replace them. The amount I will
order is 50% of the cost the Landlord may incur based on the information before
me. As there are no estimates as to
what the cost may be, I find $500.00 would be a reasonable cost to replace
the carpeting. This order reflects
this finding.
 
12.  Having considered the claims made by the Landlord, I find it would be unfair to terminate
the tenancy.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     On or before February 28, 2022, the Tenant shall have the carpet in the rental unit
cleaned to remove stains and the smell of cat urine.
 
2.     Should the cleaning
fail to remove the stains
and smell of cat urine,
the Tenant shall pay
to the Landlord $250.00 for 50% of the estimated cost to replace the carpet.
 
3.     Should the carpet
need to be replaced, the Landlord has the right to collect
the full amount of $250.00 at
any time after the carpet is replace.




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
February 14, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Greg Joy
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Northern-RO
199 Larch Street, Provincial Building, Suite 301 Sudbury ON P3E5P9
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

