Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-03
File number:	
NOL-43580-21

Citation:	Draper v Ehler, 2022 CanLII 86371 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js1gp>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: NOL-43580-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


2,
241 CHIPPEWA STREET
W NORTH BAY ON P1B6G4


 




Between:


Angela Draper


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Crystal Ehler


Tenant



 
 
 
Angela Draper (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Crystal Ehler (the 'Tenant') because
the Tenant or another occupant
of the rental unit has committed an illegal act or has carried out, or
permitted someone to carry out an illegal trade, business or occupation in the
rental unit or the residential complex (T6 application).
 
The Landlord also applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenant because
the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant
permitted in the residential complex has substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or
another tenant (T5 application).
 
This application was heard by video conference on November 22, 2021.
At 1:45 pm, only Angela Draper, the Landlord attended the hearing.
 
Determinations and Reasons:
 
1.     The Tenant is in possession of the rental
unit.
 
2.     The rental unit is on the main floor of a 2-story
residential complex.
 
3.     The lawful monthly rent is
$760.00.
 
4.    
The Landlord
collected a rent deposit of $760.00 from the Tenant and this deposit is still
being held by the Landlord.
 
5.     Interest on
the rent deposit is owing to the Tenant.




 
The N6 Notice
 
6.    
As per section 69(1)
of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’), the Landlord filed the L2 application with the Board
on August 11, 2021 based on serving the Tenant with the N6 notice and N5
notices.
 
7.     On June 29, 2021, the Landlord served the Tenant with
an N6 notice of termination (N6 notice). The
allegations in the N6 notice include complaints of a “toxic smell” emitting
from the vent system in the residential complex, noise coming from the rental
unit, a “crack pipe” found in the backyard, smoke and fumes, “sketchy people”
on the property and in the rental unit. The Landlord
alleges that the Tenant admitted
to smoking drugs in
the unit. The alleged incidences
occurred on four occasions, June 20, 2021, June 22, 2021, June 27, 2021 and
June 29, 2021.
 
8.     The N6 notice seeks to terminate the tenancy on July
20, 2021 because the Landlord alleges that the Tenant or someone living with the Tenant has committed an illegal act or
is carrying on an illegal business at the residential complex.
 
9.    
The N6 notice is non-voidable which
means that the Tenant
does not have the
opportunity to correct the behaviour that gave rise to the N6 notice.
 
 
Testimony and Evidence
 
10.  On the date of the hearing, the Landlord testified that the Tenant
is smoking drugs in the rental unit and on the residential
complex and that the tenants from the other two rental units have complained on
several occasions. The other tenants
complained that the smell of smoke was coming from the vents in the rental
complex. Text messages of
conversations between the Landlord
and the other tenants were submitted as evidence.
 
11.  The Landlord testified that the police
were called by the downstairs tenant on or about
June 27, 2021 due to the smell of smoke and noise coming from the rental unit. The Police knocked at the rental unit
door, and the Tenant did not answer.
 
12. 
The Landlord
relied on the text message
evidence regarding the allegation of excessive
noise caused by the Tenant.
 
13.  The Landlord testified
that “sketchy people”
come and go from the rental unit.
 
14.  On or about June 20, 2021, another
tenant in the residential complex
alleged that the Tenant was “smoking crystal meth right
in the apartment!”. Although the
Landlord submitted the text communication, no evidence was provided to
substantiate the allegation. Nor was
evidence submitted to prove that the “crack pipe” found in the backyard of the
residential complex belonged to the Tenant.
 
15.  In my view, a Tenant making noise in the rental unit
and having guests does not constitute an illegal
act. I am therefore left with considering the allegation of the Tenant’s use of illegal drugs.




 
Analysis
 
16.  According to
section 75 of the Act,
 
The Board may issue an order
terminating a tenancy and evicting a tenant in an application under section 69 based on a notice
of termination under section 61 whether or not the tenant or other person has been
convicted of an offence relating to an illegal act, trade, business or
occupation.
 
 
In my analysis, I considered the events that gave rise to the N6 notice as they relate to Guideline 9 which states:
 
The term
"illegal" is not defined in the RTA but would include a serious
violation of a federal, provincial or municipal law. If the illegality is trivial or technical, the act or business
or occupation might not be considered serious enough to warrant eviction.
An illegal
act will be serious if it has the potential
to affect the character of the premises
or to disturb the reasonable enjoyment of the landlord or other tenants.
The seriousness of this ground can be seen in the fact that there is no opportunity in section 61 for the tenant to avoid termination by rectifying the illegal act.
 
17. 
In my view, and
based on the totality of the evidence presented, the Landlord has not proven, on
a balance of probabilities, that the Tenant committed an illegal act with
respect to the allegations that gave rise to the N6 notice. I find there is insufficient evidence to support the allegation that the Tenant
is doing drugs in the unit. Additionally, the allegations of noise and
the Tenant having guest to the unit does not constitute an illegal act.
 
18. 
While the Tenant’s behaviour
appeared to be unacceptable, the risk in this case is not sufficiently substantial to
constitute ground for termination of the tenancy.
 
N5 Notices
 
19.  The application is also based on two N5 notices of
termination that the Landlord served upon the
Tenant. The Landlord served the first N5 notice on July 20, 2021 (the
‘first N5’) and the Landlord
served the (second
N5) notice on August 11, 2021. In both notices,
the Landlord claims that the Tenant, an occupant or a guest of the
rental unit substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or a lawful
right, interest or privilege of the Landlord or another tenant.
 
First N5 Notice
 
20. 
In the first N5 notice, the Landlord claims
that on July 6, 2021 another Tenant
complained that there was cigarette smoke in her apartment coming from
the vents. On July 7, 2021




 
the Landlord went to speak with
the Tenant about the issue and the Tenant did not answer the door and on July 20, 2021 another complaint
was received by another tenant about the cigarette smoke in her
apartment.
 
21.  In her testimony, the Landlord stated that smoking was
in violation of the lease and that other tenants in the rental
complex had complained of smoke and fumes in their units
and allegedly coming from the Tenant’s unit. Although the Landlord submitted as evidence text message
communication between herself and the other tenants, I find that the Landlord
has not established, on the balance of probabilities, that smoke was coming
from the Tenant’s unit.
 
22.  The Landlord testified
that on July 7, 2021 she went to the rental unit to speak
with the Tenant and when the
Tenant did not answer the door, the Landlord did not attempt further
communication.
 
23.  With respect to the July 20, 2021 allegation, the Landlord testified that following another complaint about smoke and fumes
in another tenant’s unit, she went to speak with the Tenant, again without
success. The Landlord testified that
she attempted to communicate with the Tenant twice on that day.
 
24.  Based on the evidence before me, I am not satisfied on
a balance of probabilities that the Tenant has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or
another tenant.
 
25.  As the Landlord
did not prove the allegations in the first N5 on a balance
of probabilities, the second
N5 is invalid and cannot form the basis
of the application. Accordingly, the
application is dismissed.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.   
The application is dismissed.
 












February 3, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Dana Wren
Member, Landlord and Tenant
Board
 
Northern-RO
199 Larch Street, Provincial Building, Suite 301 Sudbury ON P3E5P9
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

