Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-13
File number:	
NOL-43639-21

Citation:	Nguyen v Ebenau, 2022 CanLII 78882 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrq3q>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: NOL-43639-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


7,
710 BARRYDOWNE RD SUDBURY ON P3A3T5


 




Between:


Kim Nguyen


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Alice Ebenau


Tenant



 
 
 
Kim Nguyen (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Alice
Ebenau (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully or
negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The Landlord has also applied
for an order requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlord for the damage;
because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant
permitted in the residential complex has substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant; and because the Tenant, another occupant of
the rental unit or a person the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
seriously impaired the safety of any person.
 
This application was heard by video conference on November 22, 2021.
At 10:34 am only the Landlord and the Tenant attended the hearing.
 
Determinations and Reasons:
 
1.     The Tenant is still in possession of the rental
unit.
 
2.    
The Landlord
served the Tenant with an N5 Notice of Termination (N5 notice) on or about July 30, 2021 with a date of
termination of August 14, 2021.
 
3.    
On the date of the hearing, I
explained to the Landlord that the N5 notice did not comply with the statutory requirements as outlined in section 64 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’) which states:
 
(1)  
A
landlord may give a tenant
notice of termination of the tenancy
if the conduct of the tenant, another occupant of the
rental unit or a person permitted in the residential complex by the tenant is
such that it substantially interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the
residential complex for all usual purposes by the landlord or another




 
tenant or substantially interferes with another lawful
right, privilege or interest of the
landlord or another tenant. 2006, c.
17, s. 64 (1).
 
(2)  
A
notice of termination under subsection (1) shall,
 
(a) provide a termination date not earlier
than the 20th day after
the notice is given;
 
4.    
I
explained to the Landlord that the N5 notice had a date of termination that was 15 days
from the service of the N5 notice, not the required 20 days as per the Act. Accordingly, the Board does not have the
jurisdiction to hear the matter and the N5 notice must be dismissed.
 
5.     The Landlord also served the Tenant with an N7 Notice
to End Tenancy for Causing Serious Problems in the Rental
Unit or Residential Complex (N7 notice). The N7 notice was served on or about June 2, 2021
with a date of termination of June 13, 2021.
 
6.     The allegations in the N7 notice were essentially the same as the allegation in the N5 notice; loud screaming from the unit
and damage to the rental unit door. The
L2 application is based on service of both the N5 and N7 notices.
 
7.     Notwithstanding the impugned
conduct is common
to both notices, only the first N5 notice
provides that in order to avoid eviction the Tenant has 7 days to stop the
activities or correct the complained about behaviour. The N7 notice do not permit the Tenant to avoid eviction
by stopping the complained of activities and paying for repairs within 7 days.
In other words, simultaneously, the Tenant is being told she can and cannot
avoid eviction for the same impugned conduct.
 
8.     Undoubtedly, a landlord is entitled to serve more than
one notice of termination respecting the same conduct or event. Indeed,
the Board’s Interpretation Guideline #10 states
in part:
 
Sometimes the same event may give
rise to more than one ground for termination, as a result the landlord may serve more than one Notice of Termination citing
the same event as the reason for both of the
Notices….
 
Although the landlord is permitted to give Notices
of Termination with different termination dates, confusion to the tenant
should be minimized. The Notices may be challenged on the basis that they are
confusing and therefore defective. In the worst case, an application may be
dismissed.
 
9.     However, as suggested in the Guideline, this does not
mean a landlord can do so in a way that causes confusion. That is
exactly has occurred in the present
case where the Tenant is being
told she can and cannot
avoid eviction for the same impugned conduct. This contradictory direction
would likely confuse any reasonable tenant.
 
10. 
I explained this to the Landlord who acknowledged how the service
of both notices
could have been confusing for her Tenant.




 
11.  For these reasons,
I find the combination of voidable and non-voidable notices
served on the Tenant for the
same alleged conduct is confusing and caused all the notices before me to be
defective. I cannot consider the
Landlord’s L2 application to terminate the tenancy int eh absence of a valid
notice of termination.
 
12. 
This order contains all of the reasons for the decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord's application is dismissed.
 












January 13, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Dana Wren
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Northern-RO
199 Larch Street, Provincial Building, Suite 301 Sudbury ON P3E5P9
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

