Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-17
File number:	
NOL-42904-21

Citation:	Kenora District Services Board v Lajoie, 2022 CanLII 106808 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jszxk>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
File Number: NOL-42904-21
 



In the matter
of:


306, 1208 HEENAN
PLACE KENORA ON P9N2Y7


 




Between:


Kenora District Services Board


Landlord




 


and


 




 


Jennifer Lajoie


Tenant



 
Kenora District Services Board (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Jennifer Lajoie (the 'Tenant')
because
a)    
the Tenant, another occupant
of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential
complex has wilfully caused undue damage to the premises,
b)    
used the rental unit or the residential complex
in a manner that is inconsistent with use as a residential premises and that has
caused or can be expected to cause significant damage; and because
c)     
the Tenant, another occupant
of the rental unit or a person
the Tenant permitted in the residential
complex has seriously impaired the safety of any person.
 
This application was heard via
video/teleconference on December
13, 2021.
The Landlord’s Agent Gayl Saindon
and the Tenant attended the hearing. The Tenant spoke
with Duty Counsel prior to the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     On April 30, 2021 the Landlord gave the Tenant an (N7) form notice to end the tenancy for causing serious problems in
the rental unit.
 
2.     The Tenant did not move out of the rental
unit pursuant to the notice
given.
 
3.     Section 66 of the Residential Tenancies Act provides:
(1) A landlord may give a tenant
notice of termination of the tenancy if, (a) an act or omission of the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or
a person permitted
in the residential complex by the tenant seriously impairs or has seriously impaired the safety of any person;
and (b) the act or omission
occurs in the residential complex.
 
4.     Section 66 is intended to be used only where the misconduct is serious in nature. The Act
specifically uses the adjective “seriously” for a reason, the use of that word
means the provision is not intended to cover any potential, contingent, or theoretical
risk of harm.




 
5.    
The pleadings set out in the N7
Notice alleges that the Tenant has frequent guests coming and going to the
residential complex at all hours of the day causing noise disturbances that interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex
by other Tenants.
 
6.     The Landlord further
alleged that during
an inspection of the unit on March
18, 2021 a number of drug ‘paraphernalia’ was
observed in the unit.
 
7.     As part of the Landlord’s application they merely
submitted a number of photographs of the type of drug paraphernalia observed.
 
8.     An application to end the Tenant based on a Tenant
interfering with the reasonable enjoyment by other
Tenants and a Landlords’ lawful
rights, privileges and interests is based on a N5 notice to end the
tenancy, not the N7 notice given in this instance.
 
9.    
Since this is the Landlord’s application, the Landlord bears the burden of proving the allegations on a balance of
probabilities.
 
10. 
The standard
of proof requires
that evidence “must always be sufficiently clear, convincing and cogent to satisfy
the balance of probabilities test.”
 
11. 
On any application, but especially on an application like this, a landlord cannot
simply make general allegations against a tenant and expect termination
of the tenancy to follow. A termination of a tenancy must always be a remedy of
last resort.
 
12. 
In Ball vs Metro,
the Divisional Court pronounced that applications must provide sufficient detail to allow the opposing
party to know the specific allegations being made so that the opposing party
can be in a position to know the case that must be met.
 
13.  In my view, and based
on the totality of the documentation presented, all the necessary
elements of the alleged offence have not been made out in this case. It was not
sufficiently clear, convincing and cogent to satisfy the balance of
probabilities test.
 
14.  I find, on the balance
of probabilities, that the vague
allegations contained in the
N7 notice significantly frustrate the Tenant’s ability to fully and properly
respond to the application.
 
15.  All in all, I was not satisfied the Landlord’s evidence
is insufficient to rise to the level necessary to meet the Landlords’ burden
of proof based on a N7 notice to end the tenancy.
 
16.  Therefore, I find the Landlord
failed to prove on a balance of probabilities that the Tenant has seriously impaired the safety
of any person.
 
17.  The Landlord’s application to end the tenancy and evict the Tenant
is to be dismissed.




 
18.  This order contains
all the reason for the decision within
the order. No other reasons
will be issued.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
 
February 17, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Randy Aulbrook
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
Northern-RO
199 Larch Street, Provincial Building, Suite 301 Sudbury ON P3E5P9
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

