Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-03
File number:	
NOL-41608-20

Citation:	Rota-black v Commanda, 2022 CanLII 86375 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js1gj>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: NOL-41608-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


UNIT 1, 836 WORTHINGTON STREET E NORTH BAY
  ON P1B1J4


 




Between:


Claudia Rota-black


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Dariane Commanda
  Marcus Beaucage


Tenants



 
 
 
Claudia
Rota-black (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and
evict Dariane Commanda and Marcus Beaucage (the 'Tenants') because
they, another occupant of the rental unit or someone they permitted in the residential
complex have wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The
Landlord has also applied for an order requiring the Tenants to compensate the
Landlord for the damage.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on November 22, 2021.
 
Only the Landlord and the Landlord’s agent, D. Parkhill
attended the hearing.
The Tenants did not attend the hearing, although
properly served with the Notice of Hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s L2
application was filed December 17, 2020, and alleges the Tenants have wilfully
or negligently caused undue damage to the rental unit or residential complex;
and the Tenants’ behaviour has substantially interfered with other
tenants’ or the Landlord’s reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex
and/or lawful rights, privileges, or interests.
Form N5
 
2.    
The Landlord’s
Form N5 contains a termination date of December 31,2020 and a service date of
December 11, 2020.
 
3.    
Since this is the
first valid N5 served by the Landlords, it must be a voidable N5 as required
under s.62 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the “Act”).




 
4.    
In the Landlord’s
Form N5, the Landlord’s Reason #1 substantial inference with reasonable
enjoyment and/or lawful rights, privileges or interests allegation does not
provide an opportunity for the Tenants to correct the behaviour, and thus I
will not be considering this allegation. On the other hand, the Landlord’s
Reason #2 wilful or negligent damage allegations provide the Tenants with an
opportunity to correct their behaviour as required under s.62 of the Act. As such, I will only be considering the
Landlord’s Reason #2 wilful or negligent damage allegations.
 
5.    
For the reasons
below, I find on a balance of probabilities that the Tenants have wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the
rental unit.
 
6.    
The Landlord
testified that the Tenants caused deliberate damage to the windows and rental
unit door. The Landlord tendered pictures from August 2021, showing the rental unit in a good state of repair. Following the Tenants taking possession of
the rental unit, the Landlord testified the Tenants caused damage to the
bedroom window, the glass screen door and the exterior door window. The Landlord tendered pictures showing
plastic covering the numerous affected areas where the glass was
removed/broken.
 
7.    
It is clear that
the damage was caused by what appears to be an intentional and deliberate
application of force by way of punch, kick or item thrown at the windows and
door. In the absence of an
alternative explanation, I am prepared to draw the inference that the Tenants
or someone they permitted in the unit cause this damage deliberately.
 
8.    
Section 89 of the
Act allows a landlord to apply to the Board for an order
requiring a tenant to pay reasonable
costs that the landlord has incurred or will incur
for the repair of, or
where repairing is not reasonable, the replacement of damaged property, if the
tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person whom the tenant permits
in the residential complex wilfully or negligently causes undue damage to the rental unit or the
residential complex and the tenant is in possession of the rental unit.  The
Landlord must show that the damage is
“undue”, meaning it is beyond normal wear and tear, and considered to be
excessive or unnecessary.
 
9.    
The Landlord seeks $75 in damages
from the Tenants
for the broken
door glass and
$500 for the replacement of the large bedroom window. I find that the damage caused is beyond
simple wear and tear and that the amount sought by the Landlord in the
circumstances is reasonable.
Other Items
 
10. 
At the hearing,
the Landlord also alleged that the Tenants caused deliberate damage to the
plumbing, the toilet/bathroom taps, and the flooring. As these allegations were not included in the Landlord’s Form
N5, I will not be considering these items.




 
11. 
Further, the
Landlord indicated that the interior of the unit is extremely unsanitary and
unsafe due to the Tenants’ extreme hoarding and positioning of ashtrays
throughout the rental unit. Since
these allegations do not support the Landlord’s wilful or negligent damage
allegations, they are dismissed.
 
12.  Section 83 requires that I consider
all the circumstances, including
the Tenants’ and the Landlord’s situations to determine if it would be appropriate
to grant section 83 relief
from eviction. The Landlord is not aware of any children living at the rental
unit and has indicated that the Tenant’s hoarding and ashtrays positioned on
beds have created a safety hazard. I
have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with
subsection 83(2) of the Act and find that it would be unfair to deny eviction
pursuant to section 83 of the Act. I
note that the Tenants did not attend the hearing, and thus did not provide any
evidence that may be relevant to my determination under s. 83.
It is
ordered that:
 
1.    
The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenants
is terminated, as of
February 28, 2022. The Tenants must
move out of the rental unit on or before February 28, 2022.
 
2.    
The Tenants shall pay to the Landlord $575.00,
which represents the reasonable costs
of repairing the damage and/or replacing the damaged property.
 
3.    
The Tenants shall also pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
4.    
If the Tenants do not pay the
Landlord the full amount owing on or before February 14, 2022, they will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from February 15, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
balance outstanding.
 
5.    
If the unit is not vacated
on or before February 28, 2022, then starting March 1, 2022, the
Landlord may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so
that the eviction may be enforced.
 
6.    
Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after March 1, 2022.












February 3, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Peter Nicholson
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Northern-RO
199 Larch Street, Provincial Building, Suite 301 Sudbury ON P3E5P9




 
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section
81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires
on September 1, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this
date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial
jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.

