Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-06
File number:	
NOT-40647-20

Citation:	Gagnon v Ouellette Asset Management Corp, 2022 CanLII 51454 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpsl7>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: NOT-40647-20
 
 



In the
  matter of:


12, 110 BRUNETVILLE ROAD KAPUSKASING ON P5N2G4


 




Between:


Edith Gagnon


Tenants




 


and


 




 


Ouellette Asset Management Corp The Estate Of Marcel Trudel
Kim Trudel


Landlords



 
 
 
Edith Gagnon (the ‘Tenant’)
applied for an order determining that the Landlords
or the Landlords' superintendent substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or
by a member of their household.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on October 14, 2021, as a de novo hearing.
 
This application had been previously scheduled for March 29, 2021, and May 25, 2021 however
for a variety of reasons were rescheduled to be heard de novo with all the
parties present.
 
Edith Gagnon
attended the hearing.
 
The new Landlord Ryan Ouellette of Ouellette Asset
Management Corporation attended
the hearing. He was not
represented at this hearing and requested that the hearing proceed.
 
The former
Landlord’s Agent Doreen
Trudel and her Legal Representative Pierre Brunelle
attending the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
At the outset of the hearing
the parties consented
to the amended application filed
by the Tenant. I granted the request to amend.
 
2.     The Tenant filed this application about
Tenant rights alleging that the Landlord or the Landlord’s Superintendent
substantially interfered with her reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. Specifically, it is alleged
that they withheld
information regarding the extent of smoking in the residential complex and
failed to address the Tenants complaints regarding smoking at the residential
complex.




 
3.    
The Tenant
testified regarding her medical conditions and how second-hand smoke affects her health.
 
4.    
The Tenant indicated
that she was from the area and had decided to move back. She found the listing
and through text and email inquired about smoking in the building.
She was advised that there was smoking and that at least one person was
known to be a smoker in the building.
 
5.    
It was uncontested that there were other smokers
in the building.
 
6.    
The Tenant indicated
that had she known that smoking was so prevalent that she would not have rented in the residential complex; and may not have relocated to the community.
 
7.    
The Tenant confirmed that she has a prescription for medical marijuana
and consumes this product in
her apartment. Notwithstanding this, she stated that she is not willing to live
in a building with a smoker.
 
8.    
The new Landlord
testified that after he purchased the residential complex, he did take measures
to reduce smoking inside the building and directed Tenants to smoke outside in
a designated area. He also described
his efforts to make fixes in the rental unit to make it “smoke-proof”, in effect doing
everything that the Tenant had requested including sealing, and painting. They also provided a Dyson air cleaner to
the Tenant. In total spent over
$1,000.00 plus a week’s worth of own labour.
The new Landlord is slowly converting building to non-smoking units, but
current Tenants are grandfathered, in addition to setting up a designated
exterior smoking site on the grounds.
 
9.    
The old Landlord did
not testify regarding their own efforts to address smoking in the building. They explained the breakdown in relations with the Tenant,
that eventually led to the former owner taking
responsibility for dealing with her. However,
due to his own ailing health was not able to think clearly or address the
issues with the Tenant.
 
10.  The Tenant submitted that if the
second-hand smoke could not be resolved, that as she spent all her savings
moving to the city, she lives month to month and cannot afford to move out, she
would likely end up in a homeless shelter with her possession in storage. Her medical
condition is progressive, and she lives with a high level
of uncertainty that is
complicated by living with second and third hand smoke.
 
11.  The relevant section of the Act provide at
s. 22 A landlord shall not at any
time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit and before the day on which
an order evicting the tenant is executed
substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential complex in which
it is located for all usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her
household.




 
12.  The Divisional Court found in Hassan v.
Niagara Housing Authority (February 5, 2001), Hamilton Docket No.
99-002412-DV, [2000] O.J. No. 5650 (Div. Ct.) SOT-00523 that a landlord who
fails to take reasonable steps to address harassment and substantial
interference with reasonable enjoyment by one tenant of another tenant
can be found to have
substantially interfered with the “victim” tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the
premises.
 
13.
In
order for me to order the Landlord to take any steps or provide any remedy to
the Tenant, I must first be satisfied on a balance of probabilities that the
Landlord has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant.
 
14.  Although
the Tenant’s complaints about second hand smoke clearly
implies that the other
tenants in the building do smoke and that it is their smoking which
impacts the air- quality
in the Tenant’s unit and common area, the Tenant is seeking to have the
Landlord stop the other tenants
from smoking. The Tenant acknowledged that the building
is not a non-smoking
building. The Tenant’s concerns
appear to be directed at the Landlord’s failure to co-operate in the Tenant’s
various efforts to completely eliminate second-hand smoke from her own unit,
including her balcony.
 
16.  There is no doubt that second-hand smoke is a health hazard and that, once notified
by a Tenant of the existence
of second hand smoke in a residential unit or complex,
Landlords have a duty to take reasonable steps to investigate the
complaint and remedy any problem.
 
17.  Both Landlord’s testified as to the
measures they took to resolve the Tenants’ complaints about second-hand smoke. These all appeared to be reasonable, the Tenant as much as expressed satisfaction with efforts of the new
Landlord. However, there is no requirement to take steps that amount to
undue hardship on the part of the Landlords’.
 
18.  The Tenant wants to exercise her own right
to consume medical marijuana, while the Tenant’s preferred outcome would see
that there is no smoking in the residential complex, or on the grounds,
as the second-hand smoke may waft
up to her balcony. It is unlikely that a residential complex
can be designated non-smoking and still permit consumption of marijuana, medical
or otherwise as a legal
product. This is in my view an unreasonable expectation.
 
19.  Given that some tenants will be
grandfathered and as such permitted to smoke in the residential complex,
it is also unreasonable to expect that the Landlord
would evict those tenants. As such, it may take some time, if not years to fully convert a
residential complex to non-smoking, at which point the Tenant may also not be
permitted to consume even medical marijuana in her rental unit.




 
20.  I would also note that the fact that there were smokers
was not hidden from the Tenant
when her initial inquiries were made about the rental
unit. There may be a difference of opinion as to how many smokers and how often they smoked. On this point, I was not satisfied that
the decision of the Tenant (to relocate and rent the unit) would not have been
any different if there were only 1 or 3 smokers in the building.
 
21.  In balancing the interests of the Landlord
and other tenants of the residential complex with those of the Tenant, I am
satisfied the Tenant’s interest in being able to consume medical marijuana
in her unit, undercuts her claim for substantial interference caused by other
tenants consuming a different tobacco product that may impact the Tenants
reasonable enjoyment of her own unit.
 
22.  I am satisfied that the former and current
Landlord’s have taken reasonable steps to curtail smoking in the residential
complex in order to accommodate the Tenant’s medical conditions that are
impacted by second-hand smoke. I am
satisfied that the Landlords’ have not interfered with the reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit and have taken reasonable steps to address the Tenants’
complaints. The potential range of
outcomes, from outright eviction, to a complete ban on smoking while the Tenant
is the only one permitted to consumer
medical marijuana, that the Tenant seeks are at or beyond a point
of undue hardship and as such shall not be considered.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Tenant’s
application is dismissed.
 
 
 
January 6, 2022 Date Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Northern-RO
199 Larch Street, Provincial Building, Suite 301 Sudbury ON P3E5P9
 
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

