Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-08
File number:	
NOT-33990-18

Citation:	NOT-33990-18 (Re), 2022 CanLII 94636 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsd0r>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:


Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
 
Multi Tenant
File Number: NOT-33990-18
 
Individual Tenant File Numbers: NOT-35706-19
NOT-35707-19 NOT-35709-19 NOT-35710-19
NOT-35712-19 NOT-35727-19 NOT-35728-19 NOT-35729-19 NOT-35732-19 NOT-35734-19
NOT-36155-19 NOT-38092-19 NOT-38106-19 NOT-38110-19 NOT-38284-19
 
 
RVP (‘the ‘Park’) was a mobile
home park which had operated for many years near Sault Ste. Marie. The Park was shut down on short notice by the Landlords in October 2018. The shutdown followed years of problems
with the Park’s water supply and sewage system.
Regulators had advised that the
Park would have to be shut down if the Landlords did not take appropriate
measures to address the problems. The
Landlords failed to take the measures and effected shut down of power, water
and sewage services at the Park on three months’ notice to the Park tenants. The tenants vacated
the Park over time, suffering various losses and hardships
in the process.
 
The application under file number
NOT-33990-18 is a multi-tenant T2 application brought on behalf of fifteen
tenants identified in Schedule 1 to this order (the ‘Tenants’) for an order
determining that the Landlords (‘RV’), (‘HD’) and (‘JD’)
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential complex by them and withheld or deliberately interfered with the
reasonable supply of a vital




service that the Landlords are
obligated to supply under the tenancy agreement. The NOT- 33990-18 application
contains allegations against the Landlords pertaining to the discontinuance
of electricity to the Park. A separate T6 application and/or T2 application was brought by each of the Tenants. Each of those applications set out additional allegations against the Landlords with respect to the failure to maintain and repair
the sewage system and failure to ensure a supply of clean water and with
respect to the consequences of the effective closure of the Park following
the Landlords’ failures. Each application set out the impact on
each Tenant of the alleged wrongdoing and the remedies sought by each Tenant in
the context of each Tenant’s circumstances.
The file numbers
associated with those individual applications, and the dates on
which the applications were heard, are set out in Schedule 1 to this order.
 
The hearing of this matter for
issues common to all of the applications proceeded to completion on July 22, 2022 in
Passcode 215 965 491 VC 75
following a number of earlier
appearances, for both the
hearing of the application under file number NOT-33990-18 and the hearings of
the related Tenants’ applications. The procedural history
is set out below. Only (‘AB-S’), who represented fourteen of the
fifteen Tenants, and the Tenant E. A, on his own behalf, attended the hearing
on July 22, 2022.
 
As set out below,
I find that that:
 
a)    
The Landlords withheld or interfered with the provision
of electricity, a vital service;
 
b)    
The Landlords failed to repair or maintain
the Park’s sewage
system
 
c)     
The Landlords failed to repair or maintain the Park’s water system;
 
d)    
The Landlords failed to terminate the tenancies of the Park Tenants in accordance with the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 (the ‘Act’);
 
e)     The Landlords’ failures
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the units and the Park by the Tenants,
both prior to and after October 2018; and
 
f)      
The Landlords’ failures attract
various remedies, some pertaining to events leading
up to the October 2018 closure and others pertaining to the effects of
the closure itself.
 
This order sets out my findings on
each the above issues which are common to all of the applications. My findings on the specific
remedies awarded to individual
Park Tenants are set out in a separate order for each of the
individual Tenant applications.
 
Procedural history:
 
1.    Preliminary case management matters concerning these applications
were heard in Passcode 611 354 038 VC 50 on February 1, 2021, following an earlier Case Management
Hearing on a portion of the applications on October 17, 2019 and an Interim
Order dated
October 23, 2019 (the ‘First Interim
Order’) arising from that hearing.
 
2.    The Tenants’ representative, AB-S, and those of the
Tenants listed in Schedule 1 as present, attended the hearing on February 1, 2021. None of the Landlords attended
the




hearing. S. D, who was not
himself a Landlord, attended the hearing to advise, on behalf of the Landlords,
that neither of the individual Landlords could be present for the hearing as
both had contracted COVID and were very ill. None of the Landlords or any
representative of any of the Landlords contacted the Board or Tenants’ counsel
to request any rescheduling. In any event, I determined that the case management matters
before me at that portion of
the hearing could be effectively addressed without the participation of the
Landlords. Future hearings were to be peremptory on the Landlords.
 
3.    An Interim Order dated February 16, 2021 (the ‘Second
Interim Order’) was issued following the February 1, 2021 appearance.
That order reiterated that the
common issues pertaining to
all the Tenants involved the park closure
and the withholding of vital services
of electricity and water. The Second Interim Order noted that since the First
Interim Order was issued, additional Tenant applications were filed, bringing
the total number of individual Tenant applications to fifteen. Since the First
Interim Order was issued some of the distinctions between groups of Tenants had
become inconsequential and the Tenant applications no longer needed
to be divided into groups. Further, some of the remedies in the application under
file number NOT-33990-18 were no longer in play as the Park had been shut down. The hearing of application NOT-233990-18 was ordered
to be scheduled alone and ahead of the individual Tenant applications,
to be followed by the hearing of each individual Tenant
application. The hearings of all applications were to be peremptory
on the Landlords.
 
4.    A hearing for NOT-33990-18 was held by videoconference
on May 6, 2021. The Landlord
JD, the Tenants’ representative, AB-S, and those of the Tenants listed in
Schedule 1 as present attended that hearing.
 
5.    I determined that the May 6, 2021 hearing would concern only the question
of whether the discontinuance of electricity to the
Park constituted a breach of the Landlords’ obligations under the Act and that
the balance of the maintenance and interference issues raised by the Tenants
would be heard subsequently in the context of the individual Tenant applications.
 
6.    As set out in Interim Order NOT-33990-18-IN issued on
May 31, 2021 (the “Third Interim Order’), I find that the Landlords had withheld or interfered with the provision of electricity, a
vital service, in contravention of the Act.
 
7.    The individual Tenant
applications were subsequently heard over three days
– June 2, 2021, June 16, 2021 and
June 17, 2021. Each of those hearings was attended by the
Tenants’ representative, AB-S, and the individual Tenant who had brought that application. None of the Landlords
attended on either of June 2, 2021, June 16, 2021 or June 17, 2021. Only the Landlord HD attended on June 17, 2021, for only the final hearing that day, as described in paragraph 9
below.
 
8.    Tenant application under
file number NOT-35712-19 was withdrawn at the hearing
of that matter on June 2,
2021.
 
9.    At the outset of the final hearing individual Tenant
hearing on June 17, 2021, being the hearing
for application NOT-38284-19, the Landlord HD appeared by video conference.




This was the first time, during
the hearing of all of the individual Tenant applications, that any of the three
named Landlords had appeared and the first time that the Landlord HD had
appeared at all. HD indicated that he
had received only one Notice of Hearing – that is, the Notice of Hearing for
NOT-38284-19 - and had not been aware of any of the previous hearings.
I noted that the Notices
of Hearings directed
to the Landlord HD for the other matters were all sent by the
Board to the same email address as the address to which the NOT-38284-19 notice
was sent. HD confirmed that this was the correct email address for him.
 
10. Another Interim Order was issued
on June 25, 2021
following the June 2021 hearings (the ‘Fourth Interim Order’). The Fourth Interim Order, a procedural
order, pertained to the application under file number NOT-33990-18 and all of
the remaining individual Tenant applications. It ordered that all of the applications were to be reconvened on July 22, 2021
for submissions and, if applicable, the introduction of additional evidence, on
the following issues:
 
a)    
Did the Landlords RV, JD and/or
HD receive notice
of hearings for the individual Tenant applications;
 
b)    
Were the Landlords JD and HD properly named
as Landlords in these applications in light of the fact that the mobile home park which is the
subject of the applications is owned by the Landlord RV;
 
c)      Does the Board have jurisdiction to award any of the
Tenants compensation, as claimed, for costs
of remaining on the site of the mobile home park subsequent to October 30, 2018; and
 
d)    
Does the Board have jurisdiction to award any of the Tenants compensation, as claimed, for the lost value of their mobile homes.
 
11.
The Fourth Interim
Order setting the July 22, 2021 hearing date was provided to all the Landlords using all of the contact
information that had been provided
by each. None of the Landlords attended the July 22nd hearing.
 
12. I heard submissions and some additional evidence on
all of the four issues set out in the Fourth Interim Order. My determinations on each issue are set
out in this order. My assessment of the T6 and T2 issues raised
in the individual Tenants’ applications, together with my determinations on the specific remedies and
amounts sought by each Tenant, are set out in each of the orders for the
individual Tenant applications.
 
Documentary Materials
 
13. The Tenants submitted
to the Board, on December 16, 2019, an Agreed Statement of Facts signed by the Tenants’
representative and by the Landlord JD on behalf of the Landlord RV. That Agreed
Statement of Facts
was admitted into evidence
and will be referenced in this order as ‘ASF’.




14. The Tenants also submitted to the Board, on January
25, 2020, a two-part compendium of documents (the ‘Tenants Compendium’) for use in all of the
Tenants’ applications. It was
admitted as evidence as ‘Tab B’. Individual documents were identified in the
hearings by reference to their positions in Tab B. The first part was
275 pages and contained Tab B-1 through a portion of Tab B-5. The second part continued
for 392 pages and contained
the remainder of Tab B-5 through Tab B37.
 
15. Documents pertaining to the individual Tenant applications were submitted separately, as Tabs C through
P, and are referenced in the orders
for the individual Tenant applications.
 
Determinations
 
1.   
s Order sets out my determinations
for to all of the procedural and substantive matters common to all of the
applications, as follows:
 
a) Were the Landlords
given sufficient notice to allow for their participation in the
individual Tenant hearings;
 
b) Were the individual Landlords JD and HD
properly joined as Landlords in the
applications;
 
c) What was the factual history
leading up to the
cessation of operations at the park, as it
pertained to the sewage system, water supply and power shutdown;
 
d) Did the Landlords’ actions
result in the disconnection of power to the Park such that the
Landlord withheld, or interfered with, the provision of electricity, a vital
service;
 
e) Did the Landlords’ actions with respect
to the water supply and sewage system cause a substantial interference with the reasonable enjoyment of the
Tenants’ units and the Park and/or a failure to meet the Landlords’ repair and
maintenance obligations;
 
f)    Are the Landlords
accountable for harms
flowing from the closure of the Park; and
 
g) What remedies may properly be claimed for harms
flowing from the closure of the
Park..
 
a) Landlords’ Participation in the Hearings
 
2.   
owing the appearance of the
Landlord HD at the final hearing on June 17, 2021, in which the Landlord HD
claimed not to have received notices of hearing for the individual Tenant
applications, I reviewed the details
of the delivery information for the notices of hearing for the
individual tenant applications. I found that the notices of hearing directed to
the Landlord RV for the hearing of the individual Tenant applications were sent
to an email address which differed slightly from that to which the notice of
hearing sent for the May 6, 2021 hearing of NOT-33990-18 had been sent. The notices were also mailed, but some




were mailed to the address of the mobile
home park which
is the subject of these applications and which has been out
of operation since October 2018.
 
3.   
ht of the information about the
differing email addresses for the Landlord RV, I must consider whether the
Landlord JD, who is a principal of the Landlord RV, and/or the Landlord RV
received adequate notice of the hearings of the individual Tenant applications.
 
4.   
described above, the Fourth
Interim Order directed the parties to address this issue at the next hearing
date. That order, and the notices of hearing, were sent to all available
addresses for the Landlords, including the addresses at which each had received
earlier notices of hearing.
 
5.   
e of the Landlords appeared at the
July 22, 2021 hearing. In that none
of the Landlords appeared to address the issue of notice, I have determined
that the Landlords have chosen, in the face of receipt of notice, to not attend
the hearings. There will be no
rehearing of the Tenants’ applications heard in June 2021.
 
b) Naming of the Individual Landlords
 
6.   
the Fourth Interim Order, the
question of the naming of the individual Landlords JD and HD was addressed in
the hearing on July 22, 2021. As
indicated above, none of the Landlords appeared at that hearing.
 
7.   
enants’ applications under file
number NOT-33990-18 named the Landlords RV, HD and JD as Landlords, together
with another individual (‘SD’). The
individual Tenants’ applications each named the Landlords RV and JD. SD was dropped as a named Landlord
following an early appearance and adjournment of the proceedings.
 
8.   
First Interim Order was issued
following a Case Management Hearing held October 17, 2019, which was attended
by a person identified in the order as the ‘Landlord’s Agent’ being a paralegal
student, and by the Landlord JD. There was no indication in the First Interim
Order of any request from the Landlord JD that his name be removed or that the
naming of either of the individuals JD or
HD as Landlords was improper. On the
contrary, the First Interim Order stated, as a preliminary issue, that the
Landlord HD is a Landlord and that the individual Tenant’s applications were
amended accordingly.
 
9.   
aph 1 of the ASF stated that the Landlord RV is the corporate landlord of
the mobile home park. Paragraph 2 stated that the current sole
director of the Landlord RV was the Landlord JD and that the Landlord HD was a
registered director of the Landlord RV at the time the Landlord RV purchased
the property in 2014. Paragraph 4 stated that the Landlord HD ceased to be a
director in October 2017, at which time the Landlord JD assumed all roles
within the corporation. Nonetheless, paragraph 5 went on to say that both the
Landlords HD and JD were, at the time the Agreed Statement of Facts was signed,
persons who are the owners of the Park or persons permitting occupancy per the
Act. I note that the phrasing in
paragraph 5 of the ASF tracks the language in the
definition of ‘landlord’ set out in subsection 2(1) of the Act.
I note also that only the
Landlord JD signed the Agreed Statement of Facts, on behalf of the Landlord RV.




 
10.
Landlord HD took the position
during his appearance on June 17, 2021 that he was not a properly named
Landlord in any of these applications. He
testified that he had had no involvement with the subject mobile home park
complex or with the Landlord RV over the relevant periods in the applications. This was the sole appearance by the
Landlord HD in any of the hearings.
 
11. B-30 of the Tenants Compendium is a business record
from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing – Rental Housing Enforcement
Unit dated July 16, 2018. That
communication was addressed personally to the Landlord HD as owner of the Park.
 
12. uly 22,
2021 the Tenant EA testified that all notices
received by the Tenants in the Park up to the effective closing of the
park in October 2018 contained the names of both the Landlords JD and HD. EA
testified that he regularly saw both of the Landlords JD and HD in the park up
to October 2018. He testified that he had sent a complaint to the Ministry of
Municipal Affairs and Housing in the spring of 2018 and had communicated at
that time with the Landlord HD.
 
13. n light of the
admissions in the ASF and the uncontested testimony of the Tenant EA with respect to the independent actions of the Landlord HD, that both of the Landlords
JD and HD have properly been identified as Landlords in these applications.
 
c) Factual History Leading Up to October
2018
 
14.
e
following facts based on the ASF and materials in the Tenants’
Compendium:
 
a)   
e
Park is a land lease community located
north of Sault Ste. Marie,
Ontario;
 
b)   
e
Landlord RV purchased
the Park from the previous
operators in 2014;
 
c)   
of the Tenants had lived in the Park for years prior to the Landlords’ purchase;
 
d)    e Ontario Ministry of the Environment and Climate
Change (‘MOECC’) issued a series of orders to the Landlords between August 2014
and April 2017 pertaining to problems with the private sewage system in the
Park. The MOECC noted that the system
had been altered since it was originally approved
for operation and ordered the Landlords to take various steps to obtain the
necessary new approval for the system, to assess the necessary modifications to
the system and to address and mitigate the failures in the system. The MOECC also noted that there were
overflow problems with the system which had to be addressed (Reference Tab B-3
of the Tenants’ Compendium);
 
e)    e Landlord RV retained KE, further to the MOECC
orders. The K assessment and an action
plan were submitted
to that MOECC on March 3, 2017 (Reference Tab B-6 of the Tenants
Compendium;




f)    
February 2017 an MOECC employee
wrote to a representative of Algoma Public Health (‘APH’) in follow up to
discussions between the two regulators about their concerns with the Park’s
septic system. The MOECC provided its information on the history of the issues
with the sewage system at the site. The information noted that a number of
important order items had not been complied with, including orders to upgrade that system and institute a regular system of
pumping. The MOECC reported
to APH that a representative of the Landlord
RV told the MOECC that the Landlord RV was not willing to upgrade the system to
bring it into compliance and that pumping out the system was too costly to do
(Reference Tab B-7.of the Tenants Compendium);
 
g)    June 8, 2017 APH issued an order to all three
Landlords to close the Park by August 31, 2017. APH’s reasons for the order included that fact that sewage was
breaking out of the malfunctioning sewage
disposal system onto the road and towards
the river, that the
contamination presented health risks and that the failed system had not been
replaced as ordered by the MOECC (Reference Tab B-9 of the Tenants Compendium);
 
h)   
June 14, 2017 an APH
representative posted notices in the Park and went door to door to give
residents notice of the closure order;
 
i)     e closure was extended twice: first to October 1,
2017, then to November 1, 2017. APH later declared that it would not enforce
the order until spring of 2018;
 
j)    
of December 2017 the
Landlords were providing Tenants with
written assurances that the Park
owners were working diligently with their consultants to resolve the sewage
system issues but that there was a chance the Park may need to be closed in the
spring o 2019 (Reference Tab B-22 of the Tenants Compendium)
 
k)   
correspondence dated March 23, 2018, APH advised the Landlords that they needed to
advise APH by May 1, 2018 of their detailed plan to comply with closure of the
Park, including the plan to provide required services while the Park is
occupied. While the Park was occupied
the Landlords were still required by the APH order to maintain services and
protect people from exposure to sewage. APH noted that the potential closure
did not prevent the Landlords from proceeding to replace the sewage system and
that if such replacement were underway before APH pursued penalty for non-
compliance, APH wrote “we understand that there may be legal notification
requirements and they should have been implemented by now” (Reference Tab B19
of the Tenants’ compendium);
 
l)    
July 16 2018 the Board’s Rental
Housing Enforcement Unit issued an order to the Landlord RV to provide
potable water and to repair
the sewage system
(Reference Tab B-30 of
Tenants’ compendium);
 
m)  ere have been problems with the provision of potable water in the Park:
 
a.    May 9, 2017, Algoma Public Health issued a boil water
advisory for the Partk due to a loss of pressure in the water system;




 
b.   
February 28, 2018, the Park was
placed under another boil water advisory
by APH. The advisory was not lifted until March 9, 2018;
 
c.   
additional boil water advisory
was issued on May 7,
2018;
 
d.   
or about June 19, 2018, the Park
owners instructed Beaumont Water Testers to cease water testing;
 
e.   
June 27, 2018, the Landlords were
ordered to carry out work to bring the Park’s water system into compliance with
the Safe Water Drinking Act; and
 
f.     July 16, 2018 the Rental Housing Enforcement Unit
issued an order which required the Landlords to “Provide tenants with a source
of potable water in compliance with Part 3, section
20 of the Health Protection and prevention Act.
In addition, ensure the dwelling unit is supplied
with a sufficient quantity of potable water necessary to meet the
daily needs of family”.
 
n)    July 31, 2018 the Landlord RV issued notices to the
Tenants informing them that the Landlords were not able to run the Park due to
a Ministry of Health closure order and advising that all operations would shut
down on October 30, 2018 (Reference Tab B-31 of the Tenants Compendium);
 
o)   
August 24, 2018 the Landlords were
found guilty of provincial offences related to
not repairing the sewage system and a monetary judgement was ordered in
the amount of $65,000.00;
 
p)   
the late summer or early fall of
2018 there was a problem with a hydro transformer at the Park. The Tenants were told that the Landlords would not fix it so they covered
the cost of the repair through contributions from some of the Tenants;
 
q)    October 17, 2018, Tenants received notice from Algoma
Power Inc. that the electricity in the Park would be disconnected on October
24, 2018.
 
r)    
or about October 30, 2018 the
Landlords ceased pumping the sewage system, which cased raw sewage to bubble up
out of the ground in the Park. The Landlords were, at that time, and remain
aware that raw sewage on the surface ground and flowing into the river is the
inevitable consequence of not pumping the system out twice per week. and
 
s)   
October 30,2018, at approximately
15:00, all vital services in the Park were cut off. The vital services had not
been restored.




 
d) Power Disconnection
 
15. et out in the Third Interim Order, I have found that the disconnection of
power by Algoma Power was attributable to the action or inaction of the
Landlords with respect to a contract
with Algoma Power. I found that the
Landlords’ actions resulted in the disconnection of power to the Park and so
amounted to the withholding, or interference with, the provision of
electricity, a vital service, in contravention of the Landlords’
responsibilities under the Act.
 
e) Supply of Water and Repair of Sewage System
 
16. the basis of my findings set out in the Factual
History summary set out above, the Landlords failed to address the longstanding
problems with the sewage system at the Park.
Their failures included failure to comply with the several orders issued by the
MOECC and with the order issued by APH.
 
17. at the Landlords’ failures to repair and maintain the
water and sewage systems and their failure to comply with regulatory orders
pertaining to either or both of the water and sewage systems, constituted
failures to meet their repair and maintenance obligation under the Act and
resulted in a substantial interference with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment
of the Park.
 
18. that the Landlords’ failures with respect to sewage
system impacted the Tenants for at least the entirety of 2018 leading up to
October 2018. I find that the
Landlord’s failures with respect to the supply of potable water impacted the
supply of potable water for roughly two weeks at the beginning of March 2018 and from the entirely
of the period June 2018
though October 2018.
 
19. awards of remedies to the Tenants pertaining to these
failures, in the period leading up to the October 2018 Park closure, are
addressed in the orders for the individual Tenant applications.
 
f) Landlords’ Liability for Park Closure
 
20. and provincial regulators had clearly
indicated that unless appropriate measures were taken with respect to the water
and sewage systems at the Park, the Park would have to be shut down.
 
21. atory order for shut down was
actually in effect as of July 31, 2018, when the Landlords provided the Tenants
with written notice of the Park’s imminent closure.




22. Landlords failed to comply with the regulators’
requirements to keep the Park in operation and chose, instead, to allow the
shut down of power and the cessation of services to the Park.
 
23. that the Landlords made no claim during the course of
the hearings that the tenancy agreements with the Tenants had somehow been
frustrated by the regulators’ requirements. The Landlords presented no evidence
to support any such claim, even had it been made. On
the contrary, the Landlords
gave the Tenants repeated assurances that the Landlords
were in communication with the regulators and were taking the requisite steps
to allow the Park’s continued operation.
 
24. at the Landlords made an express
decision to cancel
all services at the Park as of October
30, 2018 rather than incur the costs of complying with the regulatory
requirements for clean water supply and for the Park’s sewage system. The Landlords’ decision in this regard
flowed directly from their earlier failure to maintain and repair the water
supply and sewage system.
 
25. does not compel
a landlord to offer units for rent for an infinite period
if a landlord decides, for
example, to demolish the residential complex or convert it to a non-residential
use. The Act expressly sets out the
steps a landlord must take, in such circumstances, to terminate the tenancies
in those premises (refer section 50 of the Act). Further, the Act expressly
sets out the steps that the landlord of a mobile home park must take in such
circumstances (refer section 164 of the Act).
 
26.
164 of the Act provides that a
landlord wishing to demolish or convert a mobile home park may effect termination of the tenancies through serving notices
of termination under section 50 of the Act. Section
164 recognizes that tenants
in a mobile home park may be expected to require significantly more
time to react to a termination notice than tenants in another type of
residential complex. Section 164, accordingly, mandates a minimum one year
notice period for termination of tenancies in a mobile home park.
 
27. ction 37(1) of the Act provides that a tenancy may be
terminated only in accordance with the Act.
 
28. Landlords did not take any of the steps required by
the Act to terminate the tenancies of the Tenants in the Park.
 
29. ned whether the Landlords may have been compelled to
close the Park on an expedited basis in 2018 in order to avoid regulatory
prosecution for its continued operation in the face of environmental and health
concerns. No evidence was presented
in this regard, though the regulators had communicated their concerns about the
continued operation of the Park at that point.




30. as follows, that if the Landlords were in fact in such
a position, it was a situation which likely resulted from their own actions and
was a situation for which they should be held accountable:
 
a)   
e Landlords were
aware, well before one year prior to the Park’s closure, that the regulators
required certain work to be done in order for the Park to remain open;
 
b)   
e Landlords knew,
or ought to have known, at that point of their own intentions with respect to compliance with the regulatory requirements vis a vis the Park’s
closure; and
 
c)   
any event, the
impacts from the Landlords’ ultimate decision to not incur the requisite costs
to keep the Park open, and to close the Park on short notice, should not fall
on the shoulders of the Tenants. To
allow the Tenants to bear the costs of the expedited closure would contravene
the protections accorded to Tenants under the Act.
g) Remedies Sought by Tenants Pursuant to the Park Closure
 
31. e the Landlords gave no indication of an intent to ‘demolish’ the Park,
or to convert it to a
non-residential use’, the effect on the Tenants of the
Park’s closure was similar. The one year minimum notice requirement set out in
section 164 of the Act provides a useful example of the legislators’ application of the objects of the Act to the situation of a mobile home park closure.
 
32. ment of the Tenants’ entitlement to various types of remedies
claimed, as set out below, proceeds in the context of the Landlord’s short
notice to closing and the causal link between each remedy and both the
Landlords’ interference with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the Park and
the Landlords’ short notice.
 
33. enants did not all seek the same remedies for the
impacts of the Park’s closure, but the remedies sought by one or more of the
Tenants were:
 
a)   
of the value of each Tenant’s
mobile home;
 
b)    t of pocket costs for water, provision of heat and
power, and snow removal during continued occupation of the Park following the
Park’s closure;
 
c)   
and storage costs;
 
d)   
in rent for new accommodation over and above
rent at the Park; and
 
e)   
mages.
 
34. Tenants also requested that an administrative fine be
levied against the Landlords in the amount of $3,000.00 to $5,000.00.




 
Loss of Mobile Home or Loss of Value of Mobile Home
 
35. umber of the Tenants testified that they had purchased
their mobile homes from their prior occupants
at the time the Tenants came to live at the Park. As of October 2018 the mobile homes were, for practical
purposes, permanently in place. The costs of getting them into shape to be
moved either exceeded the value of the homes or cost more than the Tenant owner
could afford. The Tenants could not,
accordingly, either sell or move the mobile homes. The value of the homes was lost to the Tenants.
 
36. indicated above, the Landlords were not obliged to
guarantee the Tenants that the Park would continue to operate forever. The Landlords had the right to terminate
the tenancies if they chose, for example, to demolish the Park or convert it to
a non-residential use, as long as the Landlords complied with the requirements
of the Act.
 
37. Tenants presented no evidence that the loss of their
mobile homes could have been avoided had the Landlords effected closure of the
Park, and termination of the Tenants’ tenancies, in compliance with the Act.
 
38. that the Tenants’ loss of the value of their mobile
homes was not attributable to the Landlord’s
failure to comply
with the notice
and termination requirements of the Act when
they closed the Park.
 
39. at the Tenants are not entitled to recovery, from the
Landlords, of the lost value of their mobile homes.
 
Out of Pocket Costs to Stay at the Park
 
40. ve found that the Landlords’ actions in effectively
closing the Park, and failing to provide power, clean water and sewage
services, significantly interfered with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of
their units and the Park and constituted a failure to meet the Landlords’ repair and maintenance obligations. I find that the Landlords’ obligations to not
significantly interfere with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment, and the
Landlords’ obligations to repair
and maintain the services, extended
for at least one year following the July 31, 2018 notice of closure. I make this determination by applying the
section 164 twelve month notice analogy described above.
 
41.
ccordingly, that the Landlords
must compensate Tenants for their reasonable out of pocket costs attributable to the Tenants’
continued occupancy of the Park for a period of up to twelve months following
July 31, 2018.
 
Moving Costs
 
42. at those Tenants who incurred moving and storage costs
did so as a result of the Landlords’ wrongdoing as described in paragraph 55
above. The Landlords shall be
accountable for those costs.




 
Compensation for Rent Increase:
 
43. with moving costs, I find that the Landlords are
obliged to compensate the Tenants for the increased rent at the Tenants’ new
accommodations. The amounts will vary
with the individual circumstances of the Tenant claiming those costs, as set out in the orders for the
individual Tenant applications.
 
Damages for Serious Impairment of Reasonable Enjoyment
 
44. impacts of the Park’s
effective closure, and of the Landlords’ failures to maintain the Park,
significantly impacted Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the Park. As the
Divisional Court noted in Mejia v. Cargini, 2007 Canlii 2801(OnSCDC) at
paragraph 17, citing MacKay v. Sanghera (2001) Carswell Ont 2349 (DivCt),
the Act affords the Board a basis for an award of damages to tenants for
consequential damages arising from a landlord’s breach of its obligations under
the Act. That court awarded damages for the landlord’s breach of the tenant’s
right to quiet enjoyment. I find that
similar damages are warranted in the present situation. The nature of the impacts of the Landlords’ breach varied
between the Tenants. The compensation
attributable to those impacts is addressed in the orders for the individual
Tenant applications.
 
Administrative Fine
 
45. Board’s Interpretation Guideline 16 states that an
administrative fine is a remedy to be used by the Board to encourage compliance
with the Act and to deter landlords from engaging in similar activity in the
future. The remedy is not normally imposed unless a landlord has shown a
blatant disregard for the Act and other remedies will not provide adequate
deterrence and compliance.
 
46.
that the Landlords’ actions prior
to the October 2018 closure were problematic, and warrant awards
of compensation to the Tenants,
as set out in this order and in the orders
for the individual Tenant applications.
 
47.
that the Landlords’ actions in
effecting closure of the Park without complying with the termination
requirements set out in the Act constituted a blatant disregard for the Act.
 
48.
o find, however, that the awards
to the Tenants set out in each of the Tenant applications will provide the Landlords’ with adequate deterrence against future non- compliance.
 
49.
, therefore, that the award of an
administrative fine against the Landlords is not warranted in the
circumstances.




50.
order pertaining to each Tenant’s
requests for remedy is set out in the order for each individual Tenant
application, with reference to the finding in this order, under the file
numbers set out in Schedule 1 to this order.
 
 
February 8, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Lynn Mitchell
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Northern-RO
199 Larch Street, Provincial Building, Suite 301 Sudbury ON P3E5P9
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.




Schedule 1
 
File Number: NOT-33990-18
 
 



File Number


Attended Feb 1/2021


Attended
  May
6/2021


Date of T2/T6
  Hearing




NOT-35706-19


Yes


No


June 2/21




NOT-35707-19


No


No


June 2/21




NOT-35709-19


Yes


Yes


June 16/21




NOT-35710-19


No


No


June 2/21




NOT-35712-19


No


No


June 2/21
WD




NOT-35727-19


Yes


Yes


June 16/21




NOT-35728-19


Yes


Yes


June
  16/21




NOT-35729-19


Yes


Yes


June 16/21




NOT-35732-19


No


Yes


June 16/21




NOT-35734-19


No


No


June 2/21




NOT-36155-19


Yes


Yes


June 17/21




NOT-38092-19


Yes


Yes


June 17/21




NOT-38106-19


Yes


Yes


June
  17/21




NOT-38110-19


Yes


No


June 17/21




NOT-38284-19


Yes


No


June 17/21



 

