Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-03
File number:	
NOT-41723-21

Citation:	Ault v Tbdssab, 2022 CanLII 87372 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2pg>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: NOT-41723-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


306, 544 COURT STREET
N THUNDER BAY ON P7A7L2


 




Between:


David Ault


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Tbdssab Carl Fortier
Cristie Berman
Crystal Simeoni
  Kerri Mccallum


Landlords



 
 
 
David Ault (the 'Tenant') applied
for an order determining that Cristie Berman (CB), Carl Fortier, Kerri Mccallum,
Crystal Simeoni and Tbdssab (the 'Landlords') entered
the rental unit illegally and altered the locking system on a door giving entry to the
rental unit or residential complex without giving the Tenant replacement keys
(T2 application).
 
David Ault (the 'Tenant') also
applied for an order determining that Cristie Berman, Carl Fortier, Kerri
Mccallum, Crystal Simeoni and Tbdssab (the 'Landlords') failed to meet the
Landlords' maintenance obligations under the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') or failed
to comply with health,
safety, housing or maintenance standards (T6 application).
 
This application was heard by video
conference on November 8, 2021.
 
At 10:56
am, the Tenant
and Cristie Berman the Landlord’s Property Manager attended the hearing.
 
 
Determinations and Reasons:
 
1.   
The rental unit is a 1-bedroom apartment in multi-unit complex.
 
2.    The tenancy began
in or around January 2019.
 
3.    On December 29, 2020, the Tenant filed a T2
application alleging that the Landlord entered
the rental unit illegally and that the Landlord altered
the locking system
on the main door of the
residential.




 
4.   
The Tenant is seeking
remedies by way of rent abatement, Board
fine and requesting the Board mandate a two-hour time limit on notices of entry and to order the Landlord to reactivate the automatic door
opening system at the residential complex.
 
5.    On December 29, 2020, the Tenant also filed a T6
application alleging that the Landlord failed to meet its maintenance obligations with respect to frigid air leaks,
inadequate bathroom exhaust system and cold floors.
 
6.   
The remedies sought by the Tenant
include: rent abatement, reimbursement of costs for repairs, Board to allow the Tenant to complete the repairs and a Board order for the
Landlord to complete repairs, no rent increase until the Landlord completes the
necessary work and asking that the Board order the Landlord to source parts
from “wherever and whenever necessary.”
 
T2 Application
 
Illegal Entry:
 
7.   
The Tenant
alleges that the Landlord served
the Tenant with defective Notices
of Entry. The Tenant
submitted into evidence approximately 4 notices of entry alleging that they
failed to meet the requirement of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the “Act’).
 
8.   
It was the testimony
of the Tenant that the 8 am to 8 pm timeframe for entry is too long and unreasonable and that a 2-hour
window would be more appropriate. The Tenant also indicated that the notice of
entry should include the Tenant’s name(s).
 
9.    I reviewed with the parties
s.27 (3) of the Act which states:
 
The written
notice under subsection (1) or (2) shall specify
the reason for entry, the day
of entry and a time of entry between the hours of 8 a.m. and 8 p.m.
 
10.  It was the testimony of the Landlord
that all notices
were in compliance with the Act.
 
 
Deficient Notices:
 
11.
The Tenant’s
application complains that many
of the notices
provided do not meet the requirements for notices under the Act, specifically Notices
dated February 14, 2020, April 7, 2020, August 21, 2020, October 6, 2020 and
March 15, 2021.
 
12.
There were 3 notices where the Landlord
provided a range of time for entry between
8 am and 8 pm and 2 notices of entry between 8:30 am and 4:30 pm. The 2 notices of entry with the range of
time between 8:30 am and 4:30 pm were for inspections regarding the stove and a
contractor was required by the Landlord.




 
13.
This issue has
come up many times in applications
before the Board. The Board’s
Interpretation Guideline 19 entitled The Landlord’s Right of
Entry into a Rental Unit explains the law in this area as
follows:
 
The Divisional Court in Wrona v. Toronto Community Housing Corporation found that while a landlord is not required to
specify the exact hour and minute of a
required entry into a rental unit, a written notice providing for a nine hour
period for entry to
permit the landlord to carry out an annual
inspection of smoke detector equipment
does not comply with the requirements that the notices specify a time of
entry between 8:00
a.m. and 8:00
p.m.
 
And:
 
Where a specific time of entry
is known, it should be stated in the
notice. Where it is not possible to state a specific time of entry, the notice
may provide a reasonable window of time for entry.
 
What is a reasonable window of
time will depend upon the facts and circumstances in each case. Where the landlord exercises
control over the work being done and who is doing the
work, the notices should be reasonably specific with respect to the time for.
Where the landlord does not exercise control over the work being done or the
person who is doing the work, the notice should set out a reasonable window of
time for entry.
 
For example, where the work is
being done by a cable or telephone company and the company
specifies a reasonable window of time when it will be at the rental unit, a landlord
may reasonably specify that same window. Where the same or similar work is
being done in a number
of units on the same day, a
reasonable window of time may be specified.
 
In determining whether the
specified window of time is reasonable, consideration should be given to the
type and complexity of repair, replacement or work being undertaken, the
location of the work and the extent to which
the entry affects the tenant's ability
to use the rental unit.
 
14.
What this means
in the context of this application is that the notices of entry for the
inspections for the stove, requiring a contractor may or may not be in compliance with the Act depending on the time frame provided to the
Landlord by the contractor.
 
15.
In the testimony
provided by the Landlord’s Property Manager, she indicated that when a contractor is required,
it is not possible to guarantee a specific time for entry.
I am not prepared to make a finding that the notices do not comply
with the Act and that the entries when the contractor attended were illegal.




 
16.
That being said,
there are three other notices of entry provided by the Tenant that clearly do not meet the requirement of the Act because they do not specify a time for the entry.
 
17.
It is not a breach of the Act to serve an invalid
notice of entry. The breach occurs when the Landlord enters pursuant to an
invalid notice.
 
18. The Landlord entered
the rental unit based on the notices
provided.
 
19.
The invalid
notices provided here were entries base on the notice
of entry dated February 14, 2020, April 7, 2020
and March 15, 2021.
 
Changed Locks:
 
20.
It was the Tenants testimony that the Landlord
changed the locks on the outside
door(s) that give way to the residential complex.
 
21.
The Tenant said
that the Landlord switched to a fob-style access system and the Landlord failed
to activate the wheelchair accessible feature.
The Tenant called the Landlord, the Landlord
responded and addressed
the issue. The Tenant indicated
that the wheelchair accessible feature is functional and that the
Landlord addressed the issue satisfactorily.
 
22.
I am satisfied that the matter
of the changed locking system
was remedied by the
Landlord.
T6 Application
 
23.  With respect to the Tenant’s
T6 application, s.20(1)
of the Act states as follows:
 
A landlord is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex,
including the rental units in it, in a good state of repair and fit for
habitation and for complying with health, safety, housing and maintenance
standards.
 
24. In Onyskiw v. CJM Property Management Ltd.,
2016 ONCA 477, the Court of Appeal for Ontario rejected the position that a
landlord is automatically in breach of its obligation to maintain and repair
under subsection 20(1) as soon as an interruption in service occurs or the unit
is in need of repair. The Court addressed the competing approaches taken,
in the jurisprudence, to s. 20 maintenance applications and prefers the contextual approach. While a lease
is properly treated
as a contract, breach
of the terms/duty to
maintain/repair will not automatically result in a finding of liability. The
Court found that the reasonableness of a landlord's response and conduct to the
maintenance issue(s) is a factor in deciding breach and/or remedy and that this
is consistent with the Board's Interpretation
Guideline #5. Clearly, Onyskiw represents a




 
departure from the idea of a landlord's strict
contractual liability as espoused, in part, by the Divisional Court in Offredi
v.751768 Ontario Ltd, 1994 CanLII 11006 (ON SCDC), [1994] O.J. No. 1204 (Div. Ct.).
 
25. I must also consider s. 30(2) of the Act, requiring the tenant, or former tenant,
to advise the landlord of the
alleged breaches before applying to
the Board, and the parties' duty to mitigate found in s. 16 of the Act.
 
26. In the T6 application and viva voce testimony, the Tenant alleges
that the Landlord
was in breach of it’s statutory responsibilities by not properly
addressing the window in the rental unit, causing “frigid air leaks”, that the
bathroom exhaust system allowed for “negative pressure inside the unit” and the
resulting cold floor.
 
Windows and Frigid Air
Leaks:
 
27. With respect to
the windows, the Tenant alleges that
the 2 windows in the rental unit leak and the Landlord did not
follow through with the details in a previous inspection report.
 
28. The Tenant claims
to have followed
up with the Landlord on several occasion
about the ongoing issues of
the leaking window and resulting frigid temperatures in the rental unit.
 
29. The Tenant did not provide
any supporting evidence
on these allegations.
 
30. It was the testimony and evidence, by way of a receipt,
of CB that the issues
pertaining to the windows were repaired, specifically the seal and lock
in March 2021. I find on a balance of probabilities, that the Landlord
responded to this issue.
 
31.
CB testified that the caretaker monitors the
temperatures of the rental units and that he was denied entry by the Tenant. No evidence was submitted.
 
32.
No evidence
was provided by the Tenant
with respect to the internal
temperature of the rental unit.
 
33. CB testified that all tenants were provided with the
company policy regarding any maintenance issues. Tenants were to
contact the designated maintenance
staff and were provided with a telephone number
so that all complaints could be documented. CB further testified that when
tenants sign a lease, they are provided with this information and are advised
to contact the maintenance phone number to initiate a response.
 
34. The Tenant testified that he was aware of the process
for communication as it pertains to maintenance issues yet chose
to correspond in writing, despite being told that all employees of the Landlord
must follow the process and are not permitted to communicate by email.




 
35. Based on the above, I was not persuaded by the Tenant’s
testimony or evidence
on the allegation that the Landlord is in breach of any maintenance
obligations pertaining to the windows.
 
 
Bathroom Exhaust:
 
36. It was the testimony of the Tenant that bathrooms in the residential complex have an exhaust system which “creates constant
negative pressure inside the units. This continuously draws in equal amounts of sub-zero outside air to fill the vacuum
when leaks exist. The combined effect
of all the individual leaks is that I am filling my apartment with freezing air as fast as the bathroom exhaust suck hot ceiling-level air out.” According
to the Tenant, his floors are so cold that it hurts to wear socks.
 
37. As the Tenant did not provide any supportive evidence
on this allegation, I am not able to find on a balance of
probabilities that the Landlord breached any obligations with respect to the
windows and the bathroom exhaust system.
 
38. The Tenant submitted into evidence a significant
volume of documentation. The
information provided was largely irrelevant and difficult to follow as
allegation were made, evidence referenced
pertaining to matters that were not
before me with either the T2 application or the T6 application. For example, the Tenant provided
images of the washing machine
and drying noting that they no longer sat “flush” in the laundry facility.
 
39.
In matters such as this, a degree of latitude is provided
to the Tenant. However, in this case, the Tenant provided
substantial evidence that did not support the allegations made in the applications. The volume of evidence was largely irrelevant and confusing.
 
40.
I find that the
Landlord did respond reasonably to the Tenants complaints about the windows and resulting allegations. I am not satisfied on a balance
of probabilities that the Landlord breached its maintenance
obligations. Nor am I persuaded by the Tenant’s evidence and testimony that the
Landlord served the Tenant with invalid notices of entry. The Tenant’s T6 application is denied.
 
Remedies for T2 application:
 
41.
With respect
to the Tenant’s T2 application and based on the allegation of illegal entry and changing the locks, the Tenant
is seeking: a rent abatement, a Board fine and requesting the Board to issue a
2-hour time window for Notices of Entry and that names be included on the
notices. Additionally, the Tenant is
asking the Board to instruct the Landlord to re-activate the automatic door
opening system.
 
42. I do not find that a Board
fine is warranted in this situation.




 
 
 
43.
The Board lacks the jurisdiction to change the statutory requirements on a Notice of Entry.
 
44.
On the matter of the locking
system on the main door of the rental complex,
I find that the issue was resolved by the Landlord.
 
45.
The Tenant’s
rent is subsidized with his portion
being $297.00 of the total rent in the
amount of $832.00. The Tenant is seeking a rent abatement for one month in the
amount of $297.00 based on the allegation of both illegal entry and changing
the locking system.
 
46.
Assessing quantum
of abatement is something of an art rather than a science. The Board looks at evidence
of impact on the Tenant of the Landlord’s breach,
the length of time
the breach, the proportion of the rental
unit affected by the breach
and the remedy awarded in prior like cases.
 
47.
What the evidence indicates is that the Tenant was a little
frustrated with the issue of the notices but for the most
part, I do not find, was not substantially inconvenienced.
 
48.
Having considered
all of the above, I am of the view that a reasonable abatement of rent would be
$44.55 which represents 5% of the Tenant’s
portion of the monthly rent for the three notices of entry that
did not comply with the Act.
 
49.
This order contains all of the reasons for the decision
within it. No further reasons shall be
issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Tenant’s T6 application is dismissed.
 
2.    The Tenant’s T2 application is granted.
 
3.    The Landlord shall
pay to the Tenant $44.55.
 
4.    The Landlord shall also pay to the Tenant $53.00 for the cost of filing the
application.
 
5.    The total amount
the Landlord owes the Tenant is $97.55.
 
6.    The Landlord shall pay the Tenant the full amount
owing by February
15, 2022.
 
7.   
If the Landlord does not pay the Tenant the full among owing by February
15, 2022, they will owe interest. This will be calculated from February
16,2022 at 2% annually on the




 
balance outstanding.
 
8.   
The Tenant has the right, at any time, to collect
the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 












February 3,
2022

Date Issued                                                                      Dana Wren
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Northern-RO
199 Larch Street, Provincial Building, Suite 301 Sudbury ON P3E5P9
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

