Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-25
File number:	
SOL-24835-21

Citation:	Sanvido v Sacco, 2022 CanLII 80794 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrshz>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-24835-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


4, 23 TERRACE HILL
STREET BRANTFORD ON N3R1E8


 




Between:


John Sanvido


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Amber Sacco


Tenant



 
 
 
John Sanvido (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Amber Sacco (the
'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone
the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has substantially interfered
with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful
right, privilege or interest of the Landlord
or another tenant.
The Landlord also claimed
compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination
date.
 
This application was heard by
video conference on January 5,
2022.
 
Only the Landlord’s agent,
K. Malinouski, and the Landlord’s legal representative, J. Nieuwhof,
attended the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Tenant did not attend the hearing
scheduled for 9 a.m. I waited over three hours, and then I proceeded to hear the
matter on an uncontested basis.
 
2.     The Landlord served the Tenant with two N5 notices of
termination. The Landlord’s agent, K. Malinouski (KM), said that the first N5 notice of termination, deemed served on September 11, 2021, was not voided.
 
3.     Both N5 notices
of termination alleged
excessive clutter outside
and inside the rental unit.
 
4.     KM submitted into evidence a number of photos of the
rental unit. The photos showed
clothing, junk and debris piled almost to the ceiling
in a number of rooms. There was also
damage to the walls with holes and writing on the walls. He said that the photos were taken on September 3, 2021, before
the first N5 notice of termination was served on the Tenant.




 
5.    
KM said that the fire
department did an inspection, and they informed
him that the state of the rental unit presented a fire and
safety danger. He said the fire
department told him that the issue had to be rectified within 7 days.
 
6.     KM said that he personally re-inspected the rental
unit on December 23, 2021,
and it was in a worse
state than in the photos taken on September 3, 2021. He said that the Tenant has done nothing to correct the
mess, and he said that the mess is now worse than before.
 
7.     KM said that the Tenant kept promising to clear the
mess, and he has no idea why the Tenant did not attend the hearing. He said that he has discussed safety
issues with the Tenant. He also said that he is not aware of any reason to deny or delay
eviction.
 
8.     The Landlord submits that the unclean, cluttered state
of the rental unit presents a fire hazard, and the Landlord is now facing
fines from the fire department if it is not cleared. The Landlord submits that KM has attempted to work with the Tenant
to have her clean
up the mess. The Landlord submits
that, despite being issued two N5 notices of termination, the situation has
gotten worse. The Landlord requests
an eviction order.
 
Reasons and Analysis:
 
9.    
Subsection 64(1) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) provides that a landlord may give a tenant
notice of termination of the tenancy if the conduct of the tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or a person permitted in the residential complex by
the tenant is such that it substantially interferes with the reasonable
enjoyment of the residential complex
for all usual purposes by the landlord
or another tenant or
substantially interferes with another lawful right, privilege or interest of
the landlord or another tenant.
 
10.  The uncontested evidence of the Landlord is that it is
not in an ordinary state of cleanliness. The
photos corroborate the testimony of KM. The
rental unit is cluttered almost to the ceiling, prohibiting passage from room
to room. There is garbage, junk,
personal belongings and debris in every room, and the walls have also been
defaced. The Landlord served
an N5 notice of termination, and the situation
did not improve.
The Landlord served a second N5 notice of termination, and when KM
inspected the rental unit a couple of weeks before the hearing, the situation
had deteriorated.
 
11.  The Landlord has been told that they are in violation of fire codes, and they have been ordered to ameliorate the situation
or else face fines.
 
12.  Based on the above, I find that the Landlord has
proved, on a balance of probabilities, that the state of the Tenant’s rental
unit has substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment of the residential complex
by the landlord, and substantially interfered with a lawful right, privilege or interest of
the landlord.




 
13.  The Tenant has done nothing to improve the situation
for at least four months, and the state of the rental unit has gotten worse. There is no evidence to suggest that a
conditional order would
be effective, and I find that it is prejudicial to the Landlord
for the tenancy to continue.
 
14.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances
above in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would
be unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the
Act.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenant
is terminated. The Tenant must move
out of the rental unit on or before February 5, 2022.
 
2.     The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord $22.59
per day for compensation for the use of
the unit from January 26, 2022 to the date the Tenant moves out of the unit.
 
3.    
The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
4.     If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord the full amount owing on or before
February 5, 2022, the Tenant
will start to owe interest. This will
be simple interest calculated from February 6, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
balance outstanding.
 
5.     If the unit is not vacated on or before
February 5, 2022, then starting February 6, 2022, the Landlord
may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the
eviction may be enforced.
 
6.     Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after February 6, 2022.
 
 
January 25, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction
expires on August 6, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

