Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-15
File number:	
SOL-26184-21

Citation:	Abdallah v Sylvia, 2022 CanLII 108685 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jt2df>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-26184-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


UNIT 1, 95 WOOD STREET BRANTFORD ON N3R2L1


 




Between:


Mohammad Abdallah


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


O'donnell Sylvia


Tenant



 
 
 
Mohammad Abdallah (the
'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict O'donnell Sylvia
(the 'Tenant') because the Landlord requires
possession of the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation.
The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the
unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard
in by videoconference on January 19,
2022.
 
The Landlord and the Tenant attended
the hearing. The Landlord
was represented by his lawyer Jesse Dostal. The Tenant was
represented by her lawyer Ayesha Noorani.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     On July 20, 2021 the Landlord served
the Tenant a Notice of Termination (‘N12)
requiring possession of the rental unit. The N12 indicates the tenancy
is to terminate September 30, 2021.
 
2.    
The N12 alleges the Landlord’s father,
Jamil Abdallah, requires
the unit for the
purpose of residential
occupation for at least one year. In support of the Landlord’s application
Jamil Abdallah swore an affidavit,
which was filed with the Board, in accordance with s. 72(1)(b) of the Residential Tenancies
Act 2006 (the ‘Act’)
 
=
 
3.     For the reasons
that follow I find the Landlord, in good faith, requires possession of the rental unit for
residential occupation for his father Jamil Abdallah
 
Jamil Abdallah




 
4.    
Jamil Abdallah is 81-year-old man. He currently resides with his wife in Mississauga. He manages the rental unit on behalf of his
son. In addition to managing the rental unit for his son, he manages another
apartment building not too far from the rental unit.
 
5.     The current rental unit is in Brantford. It is
approximately a 50Km drive from Jamil Abdallah’s house in Mississauga. Jamil
Abdallah has grown tired of the long commute back and forth. He plans to live in the rental
unit to be closer to his family
and the rental units he manages.
 
6.     There are currently 4 rental units in the apartment
building. They are all currently occupied. All the other units have families. Jamil Abdallah chose this unit to reside
because it would uproot the least amount of people.
 
7.    
Jamil Abduallah has not yet put his house in Mississauga for sale or lease. He is waiting
for the result of this hearing before he finalizes his plan for the Mississauga
residence.
 
 Sylvia’Donnell
 
8.    
The Tenant has been living in the
rental unit for 21 years. She disagrees with Jamil Abdallah’s reasons for
choosing her unit as the one to relocate too. She believes the Landlord is targeting her because her rent is way below market at $788.00
per month.
 
9.     Furthermore, the Tenant
believes the Landlord
wants her out because of her excess water usage. This results in a
higher water bill for the Landlord.
 
10.  Additionally, the rental unit needs $18,000.00 in
renovations The Tenant believes the Landlord
really wants the unit vacant
so the renovations can be completed while
the unit is vacant.
 
11.  Finally, The Tenant
asserts that Jamil Abdallah
does not really need to be in Brantford
because he hires outside help for
the maintenance and all Tenants pay rent by e-mail transfer now.
 
Analysis
 
12.  Section 48(1) of the Act allows a Landlord to terminate a tenancy if the landlord
in good faith requires the
rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation by a parent.
 
13.  In Feeney v. Noble, 1994 CanLII 10538
(ON SC), the
Court held that the test
of good faith is genuine intention to occupy the premises and not the reasonableness
of the Landlord’s proposal. This principle was upheld in Salter v. Beljinac, 2001 CanLII 40231 (ON SCDC), in which the
Court held that the “good faith” requirement simply means that the Landlord
sincerely intends to occupy the rental unit. The Landlord may also have
additional motives for selecting a particular rental unit, but this does not
affect the good faith of the Landlord’s notice.”
 
14.  In the more recent case of Fava v. Harrison,
2014 ONSC 3352 (Div. Ct.) the Court added that while
the motives of the Landlord
are, per Salter, “largely
irrelevant”, the




 
Board can consider the conduct and motives of the
Landlord to draw inferences as to
whether the Landlord desires in good faith to occupy the property
 
15.  Applying these principles to this case, I find Jamil Abdallah in good faith requires the unit
for residential occupation for at least one year.
 
16.  I accept his evidence that he wishes to downsize and
has become tired of the long commute. He
may not do all the maintenance at the apartment anymore, but he does sweep and take out the garbage.
He also supervises other tasks that he cannot
do on his own. Even though he does not physically collect rent
anymore, it is understandable that Jamil Abdallah would want to live in the
complex that he manages so that he may respond if needed.
 
17.  It is uncontested that the Landlord made offers to the
Tenant to terminate the tenancy. This stemmed from the Tenant’s
high-water usage and renovations needed
in the rental unit. And I also accept the Tenant’s evidence that her
rent is below market value. However, while these factors could suggest bad
faith on the Landlord’s part,
ultimately I accept that Mr.
Abdallah in good faith intends to reside in the unit for one year for the
purpose of residential occupation.
 
 
Compensation
 
18.  The Landlord attempted to pay the Tenant one month’s
compensation as per s. 48.1 of the Act by way of an e-mail transfer. The Tenant
refused to accept the transfer as she wished
to proceed to have this matter resolved
by a hearing. The Tenant’s
representative acknowledged the Landlord attempted to pay the Tenant
compensation as required.
 
19.  The Tenant ought not be able to frustrate the Landlord’s application by refusing to accept
compensation. I find the Landlord has complied with compensation requirements
set out in s. 48.1 of the Act. While the Landlord may have complied with the
requirements of the Act, the Tenant is still entitled to receive the
compensation. The Landlord would be well served to ensure the Tenant receives
the compensation she is entitled too under s. 48.1 of the Act.
 
Relief from Eviction
 
20.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Act and find that it would
not be unfair to postpone the eviction until December 31, 2022 pursuant to subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act.
 
21.  The Tenant is a 63-year-old woman who lives alone. Her income is approximately
$1300.00 a month from a combination of CPP Disability and ODSP.
 
22.  The Tenant testified that she has searched extensively
for a new place to live. She is on the waiting list of geared-to-income housing. She is in the third year of a five-year waiting list.




 
23.  Given the length of the tenancy and the Tenant’s
circumstances, I find it is appropriate to delay eviction until the
end of the year for the Tenant to find a new place to live.
 
24.  I have considered the Landlord’s circumstances in
coming to this conclusion as well as those of his father.
Mr. Abdallah has not yet put his house for sale or lease—he
is not in any danger of becoming homeless. Delaying eviction until the end of the year will not, in all of the circumstances, be unfair.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The tenancy between
the Landlord and the Tenant
is terminated, as of
December 31, 2022 The Tenant must
move out of the rental unit on or before December 31, 2022.
 
2.     The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord $25.91
per day for compensation for the use of
the unit from January 01, 2023 to the date the Tenant moves out of the unit.
 
3.     If the Tenant owes the Landlord any money in accordance with paragraph 4 of this order the Tenant will owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated
from January 01, 2023 at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
4.     If the unit is not vacated on or before
December 31, 2022, then starting
January 1, 2023, the Landlord may file this order
with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be
enforced.
 
5.     Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after January 1, 2023.
 
 
 
February 15, 2022                                                         
 Date Issued                                                                     Bryan Delorenzi
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section
81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires
on July 1, 2023 if the order has not been filed on or before this date
with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction
where the rental unit is located.

