Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-11
File number:	
SOL-19373-21

Citation:	Bcimc Realty Coropration O/a Quadreal Property Group v Cardy, 2022 CanLII 55227 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpzj9>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
100
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-19373-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


704 SURREY LANE BURLINGTON ON L7T3S6


 




Between:


Bcimc Realty Coropration O/a Quadreal Property Group


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Cathy Cardy
 
and
 
David Cardy


Tenant
 
 
Unauthorized
  Occupant



 
 
Bcimc Realty
Coropration O/a Quadreal Property Group (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy of Cathy Cardy
(the 'Tenant') and to evict David Card (the ‘Unauthorized
Occupant’). The Landlord also claimed
compensation for the use of the rental unit. (A2 Application)
 
This application was heard by way of video
conference on December
15, 2021. The following
individuals attended the hearing”
 
•        
Martin Zarnett
– Landlord’s legal
representative
•        
Vanessa Sullivan
– Landlord’s witness
•        
Cathy Cardy – Tenant
•        
David Cardy – Unauthorized Occupant
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s A2
application was filed on November 19, 2021 and alleges that the Tenant vacated
and transferred occupancy of the rental
unit to David Cardy,
her child, in a manner other than by an assignment
or sublet in accordance with the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’)
 
2.    
The rental
unit is a townhouse located
in a residential complex consisting of approximately 280 townhomes.




 
Landlord’s evidence:
 
3.    
Vanessa Sullivan
provided oral testimony
at the hearing and appeared
as the Landlord’s sole witness. Ms.
Sullivan is an onsite employee of the Landlord.
 
4.    
The Landlord
entered into evidence
a copy of the lease agreement signed by the parties
on April 28, 2020 (LL exhibit #1). The
lease confirms that the Tenancy commenced on May 1, 2020 and that Cathy Cardy
was the only named Tenant. At no
point during the tenancy were any changes made to the lease.
 
5.    
The Landlord’s witness
testified that on October 1,2020 the Tenant Cathy Cardy submitted a notice to
vacate the rental unit for the same day. The
letter further advises that her son David Cardy will continue to reside in the
rental unit and be responsible for rent payment. The Landlord submitted into evidence a copy of the notice
to terminate the tenancy (LL exhibit #2).
 
6.    
The Landlord’s witness testified that the Tenant
Cathy Cardy has vacated the rental unit and has no been seen back at the
residence since October 1,2020. The
Tenant’s son David Cardy has continued to reside in the rental unit. The Landlord’s witness testified that no
agreement to assign or sublet the rental unit was submitted to the Landlord and
that no notice rescinding the notice of termination was submitted by the
Tenant.
 
7.    
The current
Occupant of the rental unit David Cardy
applied for a tenancy with the
Landlord and his application was denied on October 7, 2020.
 
8.    
The Landlord testified that the
Occupant David Cardy has
never paid rent directly to the Landlord and that the Tenant had only recently
advised the Landlord
that she is residing
in the rental unit part time. The
Tenant did not communicate with the Landlord shortly after vacating or when her
son’s rental application was denied. The
Landlord believes
that the Tenant only began to allege that they were in possession on an occasional basis when they discovered that the Landlord file this
application.
 
Tenant’s evidence:
 
9.    
The Tenant
Cathy Cardy provided
oral testimony at the hearing.
The Tenant testified that she is currently and has always paid rent to the Landlord
by way of direct deposit.
 
10.  The Tenant acknowledges serving the
Landlord with a notice of termination but maintained the position that she has
continued to reside at the rental unit part time. The Tenant stated that
she owns a trailer in Pine Valley
Park located near Hamilton and goes back and forth between the two
residences. When asked if he could
provide dates or times that she has been back to the rental
unit, the Tenant was unable to provide
specific information.
 
11.  On cross examination the Tenant agreed that
she did not provide the Landlord with a written notice rescinding the notice of termination, but claims that she verbally
told the




 
Landlord that she would
remain as a part time resident when told her son would
be evicted as a un authorized Occupant.
 
 
 
Occupant’s evidence:
 
12.  The current Occupant
David Cardy stated
that he has been residing
in the rental unit with his mother since the commencement of
the tenancy in May 20202.
 
13.  The Occupant stated that he has never paid rent directly to the Landlord,
but deposits the funds into
his mothers account, who then pays the Landlord.
 
14.  On cross examination, the Occupant agreed
that his intention was to take over the rental
unit from his mother and that when his application was denied, his mother
agreed to reside at the rental unit part time.
 
 
Analysis:
 
15. 
Section 100 (1) of the Act states:
 
100 (1) If a tenant transfers
the occupancy of a rental
unit to a person in a manner
other than by an assignment authorized under section 95 or a subletting
authorized under section 97, the landlord may apply to the Board for an order
terminating the tenancy and evicting the tenant and the person to whom
occupancy of the rental unit was transferred.
 
16.  Based on the evidence before
the Board, we are satisfied on the balance of probabilities
that the Tenant has transferred the tenancy to David Cardy in an unauthorized
manner.
 
17.  The evidence before the Board is clear that
the Tenant provided the Landlord with a written notice advising that she would
vacate the rental unit and that her son would be taking over the lease. The evidence is also clear that the
Landlord did not accept the Occupant David Cardy as a Tenant and at no point entered
into or implied
a new tenancy agreement with Mr. Cardy.
 
18.  We are not satisfied with the Tenant’s
testimony that she has not in fact vacated the rental unit and continues to temporarily reside in
the rental unit on a part time basis. The Tenant and the Occupant were unable to
provide any dates or durations of when the Tenant allegedly was residing in the
rental unit. Further, the Tenant
provided no documentary evidence to support that rental unit is still her registered address or that her
notice to terminate was rescinded.
 
19.  Although the Tenant argued that she has
still paid rent to the Landlord, we do not find that this is sufficient to establish that the
Tenant continues to occupy the
rental unit and does not establish that the Tenant rescinded her
termination notice . This finding is
consistent with section 45 of the Act which states in part:




 
45.  
Unless a landlord and tenant agree
otherwise, the landlord
does not waive
a notice of termination,
reinstate a tenancy or create a new tenancy,
 
(b)    
by accepting arrears of rent or compensation for the use or occupation of a rental unit
after,
 
(i)     the landlord or the tenant
gives a notice of termination of the tenancy,
 
20.  We have considered the Divisional Court
decision of 2295477 Ontario Inc. v. Cromwell, 2017 ONSC 3048 where the
Court determined that the Board erred in concluding that a tenant could not
have more than one residence. The
facts in Cromwell differ from this case. In Cromwell the tenant had not provided the landlord with
a notice of termination and the landlord
subsequently assumed that the tenant
had transferred the occupancy of the rental unit to his sister. In this present case, the Tenant has
clearly provided the Landlord with a notice clearly stating that she will be
vacating the rental unit and that
her son and occupant would be taking over the lease.
 
21.  While it may be reasonable to expect that the Tenant visits her son at the
rental unit from time to time, we find that this alone does not deem the Tenant
to be in possession of the rental unit
and enough to determine that the Tenant had not transferred occupancy to her son.
In Samuel Property
Management Ltd. v. Nicholson
2002 CanLII 45065 (ON CA), [2002] O.J. No. 3571 the
Ontario Court of Appeal upheld the Board’s initial ruling that the
Tenant is not deemed to be in possession of the rental unit simply because they
visit the unauthorized occupants on occasion.
In this case, it’s clear that since October 1,2020 the Tenant has only
been permitted to access and temporarily reside in the rental unit through
David Cardy, who is an unauthorized occupant.
 
Relief from eviction:
 
22.  We have considered all of the disclosed
circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to postpone the eviction until February 28, 2022 pursuant to subsection 83(1)(b)
of the Act.
 
23.  The Tenant requested
that her son be granted
approximately 2-3 months
to find alternate housing. The
Landlord’s witness confirmed that as of the date of the hearing all rent up
to December
31, 2021 had been paid and the Tenant further
paid the Landlord’s $201.00 filing fee.
 
24.  We find that this termination date would be
appropriate to allow the Occupant some additional time to secure alternate
housing. We find that any further
delay would be prejudicial to the Landlord who received a notice to terminate the tenancy over a year ago.
 
25.  This Order contains
all the reasons for this matter. No further reasons
will issue.




 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The tenancy
between the Landlord
and the Tenant is terminated.
 
2.    
The Unauthorized Occupant shall move out of the
rental unit on or before February 28, 2022.
 
3.    
Unless the rent for
January 2022 has already been paid, the Unauthorized Occupant shall pay to the Landlord $759.44,
which represents compensation for the use of the unit
from January 1, 2022 to January 11, 2022.
 
4.    
The Unauthorized
Occupant shall also pay to the Landlord $69.04 per day for compensation for the use of the unit from January 12, 2022 to the date they move out
of the unit.
 
5.    
The Unauthorized Occupant shall pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing by February 28, 2022.
 
6.    
If the Unauthorized
Occupant does not pay the Landlord the full amount owing by February 28, 2022, he will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from March 1, 2022
at 2.00% on the outstanding balance.
 
7.    
If the unit is not vacated
by February 28, 2022, then starting March 1, 2022, the Landlord may file this order with the
Court Enforcement Office (the Sheriff), so that the eviction may be enforced.
 
8.    
Upon receipt
of this order, the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord after March 1, 2022.
 
 
 
January 11, 2022                                                                                                                                                  Date Issued                                                                      Fabio Quattrociocchi
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
 
 
 
 
January 11, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Inderdeep
Padda
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7




 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires
on September 1, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this
date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial
jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.

