Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-18
File number:	
SOL-24490-21

Citation:	Ojisua v Braster, 2022 CanLII 70784 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jr93f>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-24490-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


LOWER UNIT, 29 RYKERT STREET ST CATHARINES ON L2S1Y8


 




Between:


Mafu Ojisua


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Kelly Braster Wayne
Brooks


Tenants



 
 
 
Mafu Ojisua (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Wayne Brooks
and Kelly Braster (the 'Tenants') because they, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone
they permitted in the residential complex have substantially interfered
with the Landlord or another tenant’s reasonable enjoyment and wilfully caused
undue damage to the premises. The Landlord has also applied for an order
requiring the Tenants to compensate the Landlord for the damage. The Landlord
also applied because the Tenants have been persistently late in paying their
rent.
 
This
application was heard via videoconference on January 5, 2022. Only the Landlord
attended the hearing. As of 10:49 a.m., the Tenants were not present or
represented although properly served with notice of this hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
N8 Notice
 
1.     The Landlord applied
to terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenants because
the Tenants have been
persistently late in paying their rent.
 
2.    
Rent is due on the first of each month. The Tenants were late nine times in twelve months.
 
3.    
The Tenant has persistently failed to pay the rent on the date it was due.
 
N5 Notice
 
4.    
The Landlord applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenants because they, another occupant of the
rental unit or someone they permitted in the residential complex have
substantially interfered with the Landlord or another tenant’s reasonable
enjoyment. The Landlord served two N5s on the Tenants.
The first N5 was served
on




 
October 25, 2020 and had a termination
date of November 30, 2021. The second N5 was served on
January 15, 2021 and had a termination date of February 28, 2021.
 
5.     The first N5 alleged that on October 25, 2020, the
Tenants made excessive noise from their unit. Specifically, the noise was loud fighting
and breaking things.
The upstairs tenants reported this noise to the
Landlord.
 
6.    
The second N5 alleged
that on January 15, 2021, the Tenants
made excessive noise from
their unit. Specifically, the noise
was loud music,
fighting, and breaking
things late at night.
The upstairs tenants reported this issue to the Landlord.
 
Law and
Analysis
 
7.    
Subsection 64 (1) of the Act states:
 
A landlord
may give a tenant notice
of termination of the tenancy
if the conduct of the tenant, another occupant of the
rental unit or a person permitted in the residential complex by the tenant is
such that it substantially interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex for all usual purposes
by the landlord or another tenant or substantially interferes
with another lawful right, privilege or interest of the landlord or another
tenant. 2006, c. 17, s. 64 (1).
 
8.    
Based on the uncontested evidence
of the Landlord, the Tenants substantially interfered with another tenant’s
reasonable enjoyment as the uncontested evidence was that the noise was
excessive. I am also satisfied that the excessive noise interfered with the
Landlord’s reasonable enjoyment as the evidence was that he attempted to
address the issue of noise verbally multiple times with the Tenants prior to
the notice but continued to receive complaints from his other tenants. As such,
I find that the first N5 notice is valid.
 
9.     Subsection 68(1) of the Act states entitles
the Landlord to serve a non-voidable N5 if there is another incident that occurs more
than seven days but less than six months after the Landlord served the first N5
notice.
 
10.  I accept the uncontested testimony of the Landlord,
and find that the Landlord proved, on a balance of probabilities, that the Tenants
substantially interfered with the Landlord's and the other tenants'
reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex by continued
excessive noise by fighting, playing music loudly and breaking things.
 
N7 Notice
 
11.  The Landlord applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenants because they, another occupant of the
rental unit or someone they permitted in the residential complex wilfully
caused undue damage to the premises. The N7 notice was served on August 1, 2021
and had a termination date of August 31, 2021.
12.  The N7 notice alleges that on August 1, 2021 it was
discovered that two bedroom doors were completely broken and off the hinges,
the bathroom shower was damaged, there is damage to the kitchen cupboards and
there are holes in the walls in the rooms.




 
 
 
13.  The Landlord testified that on August 1, 2021, he
discovered substantial damage. Submitted into evidence were photographs of the
damage showing the door trim missing, broken cupboards, mirrors off their
hinges, shower door is cracked, the walls had writing and drawings done in
black marker, pen and spray paint,
there were massive holes in the walls
and a profane phrase written on the door.
 
Law and
Analysis
 
14.  Section 63 (1)
of the Act provides that a landlord may give a notice of termination of the
tenancy if the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person the tenant permits in the
residential complex wilfully causes undue damage to the rental unit.
 
15.  With respect to the writing and drawings on the wall, I find the Tenants wilfully caused the damage. I make this conclusion based on the photographs of
the drawings and writing on the wall
which is very clearly intentional and not a result of negligent damage. I also
find the profane phrase written on the door to be intentional. As such, on a
balance of probabilities, I find the Tenant had wilfully caused damage to the
rental unit.
 
DAMAGES
 
16.  The Landlord also sought compensation for the damages
discovered in the unit. Subsection 89(1) says:
 
A landlord
may apply to the Board for an order requiring a tenant to pay reasonable costs that the landlord
has incurred or will incur for the repair of or, where repairing is not
reasonable, the replacement of damaged property,
if the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person
whom the tenant permits in the residential complex wilfully or negligently
causes undue damage to the rental unit or the residential complex and the
tenant is in possession of the rental unit.
 
17.  The language of section 89 requires damage to be
undue. It is recognized that some damage will occur over the regular course of
time, due to regular wear and tear in a residential complex. Reasonable wear
and tear would not normally constitute “undue damage” (Kamoo v. Brampton Caledon
Housing Corp. 2005 O.J. No. 3911).
 
18.  Having found that the Tenants wilfully damaged the
walls and door by writing and drawing on them,
I turn now to whether
the Tenants wilfully
or negligently caused
undue damage to the other
parts of the rental unit. On a balance of probabilities, I find that the
Tenants wilfully or negligently caused undue damage. Based on the uncontested
evidence of the Landlord, I am satisfied
that the Tenants
caused the damage.
I also find the damage to be undue because the damage is so substantial that it is not from regular
wear and tear. The holes in the walls are quite large,
the door trim damage is substantial,
the mirrors have been taken off their hinges and the crack in the shower door
expands the entire length of the shower.




 
19.  The only remaining determination is whether the
Landlord’s claim to repair or replace the damage is reasonable. The Landlord
quoted the amount to repair or replace the damage at $2,000.00 based on his
personal knowledge of repair. I find this amount to be reasonable in
consideration of the extend of the damage. My order will issue accordingly.
 
Relief from Eviction
 
20. 
I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2)
of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it
would be unfair to grant relief from eviction
pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the Act.
The Tenants were not present to disclose any circumstances for
me to consider delaying or denying eviction. As such, relief will not be granted.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenants
is terminated, as of
January 23, 2022. The Tenants must move out of the rental unit on or before
January 23, 2022.
 
2.    
The Tenants shall pay to the
Landlord $2,000.00, which represents the reasonable costs of repairing the
damage and/or replacing the damaged property.
 
3.    
The Tenants shall also pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
4.     If the Tenants
do not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before January
23, 2022, they will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from January
24, 2022 at 2.00% annually on
the balance outstanding.
 
5.     If the unit is not vacated on or before January 23,
2022, then starting January 24, 2022, the Landlord may file this order with the
Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced.
 
6.     Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after January 24, 2022. The Sheriff is requested
to expedite the enforcement of this order.
 
 
January 18, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7




 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance
with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction
expires on July 24, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before
this date with the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff)
that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.

