Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-25
File number:	
SOL-24461-21

Citation:	Peters v Saunders, 2022 CanLII 80788 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrshv>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-24461-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


BASEMENT, 134
LONDON STREET SOUTH HAMILTON ON L8K2G5


 




Between:


Stephenie Peters


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Tiffany Saunders


Tenant



 
 
 
Stephenie
Peters (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
Tiffany Saunders (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the
rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest
of the Landlord or another
tenant. The Landlord
also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit
after the termination date.
 
The Landlord
also applied for an order to
terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenant because the
Tenant did not pay the rent that the Tenant owes.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on January 5, 2022. The Landlord and the Tenant attended the hearing. The Tenant
had an opportunity to speak with Tenant Duty Counsel before the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     I find that the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’)
does not apply and therefore, the Board does not have jurisdiction to decide on the merits of
this application.
 
2.     It was uncontested that the Tenant
resides in the basement and the Landlord
resides in the upper level. The basement has two
separate units. To the right is the bathroom and the Landlord’s daughter’s
bedroom. To the left is the Tenant’s den, kitchen and bedroom.
 
3.     The Landlord’s position
was that her daughter does not have use of the Tenant’s
bathroom. She submitted that she believes her daughter does not use the
bathroom based on her observation of her daughter going upstairs to use the toilet and shower. However,
she also submitted that her
daughter may use the Tenant’s bathroom occasionally. The Tenant’s position is
that the bathroom is separate from her unit and she must go to the Landlord’s
daughter’s side of the basement
to use the bathroom. The Landlord’s daughter
often uses her bathroom
as well. She bases this on hearing
the Landlord’s daughter
use the bathroom,




File Number: SOL-24461-21
 
she observed her and her friends
in the bathroom, the toilet seat is sometimes not in the position she left it,
and she found sanitary products that did not belong to her.
 
4.     Section 5 of the Act sets out Exemptions from the Act. Specifically, section
5(i) states that the Act does not apply with respect
to:
 
living
accommodation whose occupant or occupants are required to share a bathroom or kitchen facility
with the owner,
the owner’s spouse,
child or parent
or the spouse’s child or
parent, and where the owner, spouse, child or parent lives in the building in
which the living accommodation is located.
 
5.     On the basis of the evidence before me, I find that
the Tenant is required to share the bathroom with the Landlord’s daughter and
the daughter lives in the building in which the accommodation is located. I find that the only bathroom
available to the Tenant is located on the Landlord’s daughter’s side of the basement.
I also find that the Landlord’s daughter uses the Tenant’s bathroom.
I prefer the Tenant’s evidence
as she has personal knowledge of the use of her bathroom
whereas the Landlord waivered in her evidence on this point. As the Tenant is
required to share a bathroom facility with the Landlord’s daughter, I find that
the Act does not apply, and the Board lacks jurisdiction to consider the
Landlord’s application, which is therefore dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Act does not
apply.
 
2.    
The Landlords’ application is dismissed.
 
 
January 25, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

