Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-06
File number:	
SOL-22816-21

Citation:	Hughes v Pinder, 2022 CanLII 49809 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpqjm>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-22816-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


8, 70 EAST AVENUE S HAMILTON ON L8N2T4


 




Between:


Edward Hughes


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Roger
Pinder


Tenant



 
 
 
Edward Hughes
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Roger
Pinder (the 'Tenant') because they,
another occupant of the rental
unit or a person the Tenants
permitted in the residential complex have seriously impaired the safety of any
person; and because they, another occupant of the rental unit or someone they
permitted in the residential complex have wilfully caused undue damage to the
premises and used the rental unit or the residential complex in a manner that is inconsistent with use as a residential premises and that has caused or can be expected to
cause significant damage.
 
This application
was heard by way of video conference on December 15, 2021. The Landlord and the Tenant attended
the hearing. The Tenant was represented by Michael Blashko,
Counsel.
 
Determinations:
 
1.   
The Landlord’s application is based on an N7 notice served to the Tenant on June 9, 2021 with a termination date of June 20,
2021.
 
2.   
The rental
property is a single detached
dwelling with 10 separate rooms being rented
to different tenants. The
Tenant on this application resides in room #8.
 
Landlord’s evidence:
 
3.   
The Landlord testified
that on January 25, 2021 he received a phone call from another resident that
the Tenant was intoxicated and was threatening to burn the house down. The Landlord
did not witness
this incident and provided no direct evidence to support
this allegation. The Landlord
alleges that two other tenants
submitted a notice
to vacate after this incident.
 
4.   
The Landlord testified that on
June 9, 2021 he received a
call from another resident that the Tenant was intoxicated and punched a hole in the wall near the stairs. The Landlord




 
did not personally witness
the incident and provided no direct
evidence to support
this allegation, such as photos of the damage.
 
5.   
On June 9, 2021 the
Landlord testified that he received second phone call from another resident advising
that the Tenant had urinated
on the bathroom floor. The Landlord did not
witness this incident and further claimed that the urine seeped under the floor
and caused the tiles to lift. The
Landlord provided no direct evidence to support this allegation.
 
Tenant’s evidence:
 
6.   
The Tenant
denies all the allegations plead
on the Landlord’s N7 notice
of termination, and noted that the Landlord
has provided no direct evidence
of the incidents that allegedly took place as plead on the N7 notice.
 
Analysis:
 
7.   
Sections 63 and 66 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, S.O. 2006, (the Act) states:
 
63 (1) Despite section 62, a landlord
may give a tenant notice of termination of the tenancy that provides a
termination date not earlier than the 10th day after the notice is given if the tenant,
another occupant of the rental
unit or a person whom the tenant permits in the residential
complex,
 
(a)    
wilfully causes
undue damage to the rental
unit or the residential complex;
or
 
(b)    
uses the rental unit or
the residential complex in a manner that is inconsistent with use as residential premises and that causes or can reasonably be expected to cause damage that is significantly greater than the damage that is
required in order to give a
notice of termination under clause (a) or subsection 62 (1).
 
66 (1) A landlord
may give a tenant notice of termination of the tenancy
if,
 
(a)    
an act or omission
of the tenant, another occupant
of the rental unit or a person permitted in the residential
complex by the tenant seriously impairs or has seriously impaired the safety of
any person; and
 
(b)    
the act or omission
occurs in the residential complex.
 
8.   
As this is a Landlord application, the Landlord bears the onus of proving
on a balance of
probabilities that the Tenant has seriously impaired the safety of another
within the residential complex and/or wilfully damaged the rental unit or
residential complex.
 
9.   
Based on the evidence
before the Board, we
are not satisfied
on a balance of probabilities that the Tenant has
seriously impaired the safety of another person within the residential complex,
wilfully damaged the residential complex or used the residential complex in an
inconsistent way in which it could be reasonably expected that damage would
occur.




 
10.
In
each of the three incidents plead on the N7 notice, the Landlord failed to
provide any direct evidence to the allegations. The Landlord did not personally
witness any of the incidents and the individuals who allegedly did witness the
incidents were not present to testify and provided no sworn statements
confirming the allegations on the N7 notice. Further, the Landlord did not
provide any photo images to support the alleged damages and further,.. While hearsay evidence may be admitted at
the Board, in this case the hearsay evidence is insufficient to meet the Landlord’s burden
of proving the allegations on the balance of probabilities.
 
11.
As indicated
above, we find that the Landlord
has failed to prove their case on a balance
of probabilities and as such, the application must be dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
 
1. The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
 
 
January 6, 2022                                                                                                                                                      Date Issued                                                                      Fabio Quattrociocchi
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
 
 
January 6, 2022                                                                                                                                                   Date Issued                                                                      Inderdeep Padda
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

