Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-17
File number:	
SOL-23550-21-RV

Citation:	Lewis v Weisler, 2022 CanLII 70652 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jr938>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 21.2 of the
Statutory Powers
Procedure Act
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-23550-21-RV
 
 



In the matter
of:


26 JULIA DRIVE GUELPH ON N1H5W1


 




Between:


Nita Lewis


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Andrew Weisler


Tenant



 
 
Review Order
 
Nita Lewis (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Andrew Weisler
(the 'Tenant') because the Tenant did not pay the rent that the Tenant owes.
 
This application was resolved by order SOL-23550-21 issued on December 9, 2021.
On January 8, 2022 the Tenant requested a review of the order.
A preliminary review of the review
request was completed without a hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Tenant’s request
for review asserts
that he was not reasonably able to participate in the proceeding and also that there is a serious error in the
Board’s order.
 
Not Reasonably Able to Participate
 
2.    
The Tenant claims that the order
states that he was not present or represented at the hearing but that the Tenant was in fact present. The hearing recording reveals that the Tenant was present at the hearing
and did participate. As such, the hearing Member’s typographical error does not
support a finding that the Tenant may not have been reasonably able to
participate in the hearing.
 
Serious Error
 
3.    
The Tenant claims that the Board seriously erred in its calculation of the rent
arrears, the treatment of the rent deposit
and the calculation of any interest owing on the rent deposit. There is in my view no basis for the Tenant’s claim that the
Board may have erred in this regard for the following reasons.




 
4.    
The hearing recording reveals
that the Landlord
asserted that the rent arrears
were
$26,700.00 and the Tenant asserted that the rent arrears were $25,200.00. The difference between the two amounts is
$1,500.00, 1-month’s rent.
 
5.    
At the hearing, the Landlord’s
legal representative testified that the Landlord and the Tenant agreed to apply
the rent deposit to a previous month. The Tenant agreed that this was the case and this agreement is reflected in the Tenant’s
request for review.
However, as discussed during the hearing, any such agreement was void
because the subsection 106(10) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’) requires the Landlord to apply the rent deposit to the last month of the
tenancy and because subsection 3(1) of the Act forbids the parties from
contracting out of the Act. What this means in substance, and what is reflected
in the hearing Member’s order, is that the Tenant owed an additional month of
rent and that the Landlord was still holding the rent deposit. In the
circumstances, there is no basis for the Tenant’s position that the Board may
have seriously erred in this regard.
 
6.     The Tenant’s request for review claims that the Board
seriously erred because interest is only owing on the rent deposit for the
period October 16, 2017 to August 30, 2019 rather than October 16, 2017 to July 26, 2021 period reflected
in the hearing order. This claim is based on the false premise that the
parties could contract out of the Act and apply the rent deposit to a month
other than the last month of the tenancy.
 
7.     The hearing recording reveals that it was uncontested
that the Landlord had not paid any interest on the rent deposit. Since the
Landlord was in substance still holding the rent deposit, and since there
was no dispute that the Landlord had not paid any interest
on the rent deposit since it
was collected, the hearing Member was required to and the hearing Member did
account for interest owing on the rent deposit from the date it was collected
on October 16, 2017 to July 26, 2021, the termination date specified on the N4
Notice of Termination. There is therefore no basis for the Tenant’s position
that the Board may have seriously erred in this regard.
 
8.     The Tenant claims
that there is a serious
error because the Tenant was paying the rent to a property manager rather than the
owner of the rental unit. Nothing turns on this fact. As noted above, there was in substance
no disagreement about the quantum
of the Tenant’s rent arrears once the rent deposit was properly
accounted for.
 
9.     The Tenant’s request for review also claims issues
respecting the Member’s exercise of discretion. First, the Tenant
asserts that the hearing Member
seriously erred by failing
to allow the Tenant to raise issues
under section 82 of the Act. Second,
the Tenant asserts that the hearing Member denied
him the opportunity to discuss anything other than the rent amount
owing, which if true would suggest that there was an unreasonable exercise of discretion under section 83 of the Act. This latter
claim can also be framed as an assertion that the hearing Member denied the
Tenant procedural fairness or natural justice.
 
10.  As noted in Board Interpretation Guideline 8, Review of an Order, a serious error
includes an unreasonable exercise of discretion which results in an
order outside the usual range of remedies.




 
11.  While section 82 of
the Act requires the Board to permit tenants to raise issues that could be the subject of an application
made under the Act, a tenant who wishes to raise such issues must comply with
the requirements of subsection 82(1) of the Act or provide an explanation that
is satisfactory to the Board explaining why the tenant could not comply with
these requirements. The requirements under subsection 82(10 of the Act
are: giving advance notice to the
Landlord of the tenant’s intention to raise the issue, giving the notice within
the time set out in the Rules and by giving the notice in writing in a manner
that complies with the Rules.
Rule 19.4 of the Board’s Rules of Procedure requires, unless the Board has
directed otherwise, a tenant who intends to raise such issues to provide the
other parties and the Landlord with a written description of each issue they
intend to raise and a copy of all documents, pictures and other
evidence that the tenant
intends to rely upon at the hearing at least 7-days before the scheduled
hearing.
 
12.  A review of the
Board’s record and the hearing recording reveals that the Tenant
did not comply with Rule 19.4 because he provided no advance notice
whatsoever. Additionally, the
hearing recording reveals that the explanation provided to the hearing Member
for
failing to provide advance
notice was that it wasn’t
until the morning
of the hearing that he saw that he was supposed to do so. As
the Tenant did not raise the issue of being given incorrect information by the
Tribunal, which is the assertion the Tenant’s request for review relies upon,
and as the Board’s record confirms that the Board sent the Tenant information
on how to raise Tenant’s issues under section 82 of the Act with the notice of
hearing, there is no basis for the Tenant’s assertion that the hearing Member
may have exercised his discretion unreasonably. In these circumstances, the
Board’s decision to proceed with the Landlord’s application but inform the
Tenant that he could file his own application to raise his issues in a separate
proceeding was a result that was within the range of reasonable, acceptable
outcomes.
 
13.  With respect to section 83 of the Act, the Tenant claims
that the hearing
Member denied the Tenant the
opportunity to discuss anything other than the rent owing, including the
Tenant’s medical issues. A review of the hearing
recording reveals this to be
false.
 
14.  The hearing Member heard evidence
about the Tenant’s
circumstances, including about: the Tenant’s medical issues
(including with respect to the Tenant’s lower back and hips, blood-tests and x-rays, ultrasounds and an upcoming
medical appointment on December
5, 2021 with Dr. Mark Brown), the Tenant’s past medical issues and the impact
of those issues on the Tenant’s ability to work prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Tenant’s lack of employment due to
the COVID-19 pandemic, the Tenant’s proposed repayment plan (which would take
more than 4-years), the composition of the Tenant’s family, whether
the Tenant’s family members were
looking for work or working, the Tenant’s inability to insure two vehicles because
of financial constraints and how much time the Tenant would require to find a new place to live
if the tenancy was terminated. Before the Tenant’s evidence concluded, the
hearing Member also asked the Tenant whether he had anything further to add and the Tenant responded that he had
nothing further to add, apart from indicating that he would be filing his own
application.
 
15.  In the circumstances, there is no basis to the
Tenant’s claim that the hearing Member may have erred by denying
the Tenant the opportunity to provide evidence
relevant to the exercise of discretion under section
83 of the Act. As the hearing Member heard the




 
relevant evidence, there is also
no basis for the Tenant’s assertion that the hearing Member denied the Tenant
procedural fairness or natural justice by restricting the Tenant’s evidence on
relevant issues. Further, given the significant quantum of the arrears, in this case more than $25,000.00, the hearing Member’s
conclusion is within
the range of reasonable, acceptable outcomes.
 
16.  As a result of all of the above, the Tenants’ request
for review must be denied because I am not satisfied
that there is a serious
error in the order or that a serious error occurred in the proceedings.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The request to review order SOL-23550-21 issued
on December 9, 2021 is
denied. The order is
confirmed and remains unchanged.
 
 




January 17, 2022 Date Issued
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7



 
 
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

