Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-04
File number:	
SOL-15600-20

Citation:	Partheniou v Matyas-Sutton, 2022 CanLII 49781 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpqj7>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 



 


Order under
Section 68
Residential Tenancies Act,
2006


 




 


File Number:
SOL-15600-20




 
In the matter
  of:


 
UPPER SOUTH, 4686
BRIDGE STREET NIAGARA FALLS
  ON L2E2R8


 




Between:


John I. Partheniou


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Zachary William Matyas-Sutton


Tenant



 
 
 
John I. Partheniou (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Zachary William Matyas-Sutton (the
'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone
the Tenant permitted in the residential complex wilfully or negligently caused
undue damage to the premises and substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or another
tenant. The Landlord has also applied for an order requiring the Tenant to
compensate the Landlord for the damage.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 15, 2021.
 
The Landlord attended the hearing. As of 10:45 a.m. the Tenant was not present
or represented at the hearing
although properly served with notice of this hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
1.       
The Landlord’s application is based on a second
Notice to End your Tenancy
for Interfering with Others, Damage or Overcrowding (‘N5’).
 
2.       
In order to proceed
with an application for eviction
based on a second
N5, I must find there was a
valid first N5. Additionally, the subject of the second N5 must take place more
than seven days but less than six months after the first N5 was served.
 
The First N5 Was Valid
 
3.       
A
determination of validity
of a first N5 necessitates finding that notice
requirements, both in terms
of length and sufficiency of reasons and details, have been satisfied.
 
4.       
The Landlord served an N5 on
January 9, 2020, on the Tenant by
leaving it where the Tenant normally gets his mail (the “First
N5”). As the termination date was
twenty days after the date of
service, the length of notice requirement was satisfied.




 
5.       
With respect to notice of the
reasons and details, the tenant must have been provided with sufficient detail to stop their conduct
and respond to the allegations at a hearing.
As articulated in Ball v Metro Capital Property, [2002] O.J. No.
593, at para. 12, this should generally include, “the dates and times of the
alleged offensive conduct together with a detailed description of the alleged
conduct engaged in by the tenant.”
 
6.       
The Landlord’s First N5 asserts
substantial interference and wilful or negligent damage with respect to 13
itemized bullet points. On review of these allegations, I find that many of these do not satisfy the notice requirements as they are general undated statements or statements of events with no dates provided. However,
I find that at a minimum,
claims 1, 4, and 6 provide sufficient
detail that a reasonable tenant could have understood the precise actions or
omissions that caused the Landlord to pursue eviction and know the case they
had to meet to prepare an effective response.
 
7.       
I
find the First N5 valid.
 
The Second N5
 
8.       
The Landlord delivered a second N5
to the Tenant on July 6, 2020 (the “Second N5”). This was more than seven days and within six months
after the First N5. The termination
date was 14 days after the date of service.
The timing of notice
and service requirements were satisfied.
 
9.       
The Second N5 alleged substantial
interference and wilful or negligent damage to the rental unit or residential
complex. The allegations were contained in sixteen itemized bullet points
attached as Schedule ‘A’ to the Second N5. On the Landlord’s application
essentially the same bullet points
were attached; however,
some of the numbering varied. I have referred to the numbering
on the Second N5 below.
 
10.    Some of the allegations on the Second N5 repeat events
from the First N5. Even where additional information has been provided
regarding these events, they are not properly the subject of the Second
N5. As a result, I find the following allegations invalid and have
not considered them: 1,2, 3, first half of 4, 5, 6,
7, second 8, first paragraph
of 9, and 15.
 
11.    The second paragraph
of allegation 9 on the Second N5 is from January 12, 2020. This is
less than seven days after the service of the First N5 and so is invalid.
 
12.    The third paragraph of allegation 9 on the Second N5
is from January 25, 2020 and is timely; however, this does
not allege that any right
or interest of the Landlord
has been substantially interfered with nor
does it allege any wilful
or unnecessary damage.
It is a statement that the Tenant asserted he was mentally sick and
was difficult to communicate with and is invalid.
 
13.   
Allegation 16 is a statement that the tenancy
should terminate as soon
as possible. This is not an allegation of behaviour and is therefore invalid.




 
14.   
Of the remaining allegations, I
find the following allegations do not satisfy the notice requirements as they are general undated
statements or statements of events with no
dates provided: 13, 14, and 15.
 
15.    I find three allegations on the Second
N5 satisfy the notice and timing requirements. These are:
 
Second half of allegation 4 –
Discovery on January 23, 2020 of the heat register covered, electric heater on,
door broken by police, and piece of wood blocking the toilet flapper
such that the water was running. The Landlord seeks
the costs to replace
the door, including the frame and locks.
 
First allegation 8 - Events that
took place on January 25, 2020 where the heat
registers were discovered covered, with an electric heater
running and a piece of wood
blocking the toilet flapper such that the water was constantly running. The
Landlord seeks $337.34 for utility costs of excess wasted water.
 
Allegation 12 [13 on the
L2 Application] – A complaint
received from another
tenant in the residential
complex on June 26, 2020, that the Tenant threatened him, and that eggs were
thrown at their window and had to be cleaned.
 
Allegation of Broken Door – January
23, 2020
 
16.   
The Landlord testified that the
Tenant was arrested in the rental unit on January 23, 2020. In this process the
Landlord testified, the police broke the door of the rental unit. The Landlord
submits because the Tenant did not open the door for the police, he should
be held responsible. Under the Act, termination and damages are only available
where the Tenant, an occupant, or guest causes undue or wilful damage. Here,
neither the Tenant nor an occupant nor a guest broke the door. The Landlord was
clear the police broke the door. This allegation is dismissed.
 
Allegations of Covering Heat Registers, Electric
Heater and Running
Toilet - January
23 and 25, 2020
 
17.    Under the terms of the lease, the Landlord is
responsible for paying for the heat, electricity, and water expenses in the rental
unit. The Landlord
asserts it is implied term of
the lease that these expenses be reasonable.
 
18.    Additional terms attached to the lease at Schedule B
specifically provide that where the Landlord pays hydro, a Tenant is not to have
certain appliances without having made prior
arrangements with the Landlord and a set fee will be charged
for these. With respect
to heat, the additional terms also provide no other heating system will be
used, as it interferes with the thermostat that is installed for the heating
purpose. No additional terms are
provided for restrictions on water.
 
19.    On January 23 and 25, 2020 the Landlord testified the
Tenant had covered the heat registers in the rental unit and was using an
electric heater. The Landlord testified the Tenant claimed he was cold but the thermostat read 23. The Tenant had also placed
a




 
piece of wood – understood to be part of a wooden spoon
- under the flapper of the toilet so that the water ran constantly.
 
20.    I find that the Tenant’s use of an electric heater and
covering of the heating registers is a breach of the terms of the lease
regarding other heating systems. The Landlord testified this was a waste of
heat and some of the electric heaters were faulty and tripped breakers. I find the Tenant substantially interfered with the Landlord’s rights
or interests in this regard.
 
21.    Although the lease
was silent with respect to water usage,
I find it is reasonable to imply
that water expenses are to be reasonable.
 
22.   
The Landlord provided copies
of four water bills from August 7, 2019 to October 6, 2019,
October 7, 2019 to December 6, 2019, December 7, 2019 to February 6, 2020, and
February 7 to April 6, 2020. These are the water charges for the entire
residential complex for the periods indicated. The bill from December 7, 2019
to February 6, 2020, was higher than the other bills. The Landlord testified
only two tenants were residing in two units in the residential complex during
the relevant time. The Landlord testified he spoke with the other tenant and
they had not been running the water.
 
23.    Where, as here, the sole evidence before me was that
the Tenant was intentionally running the water I find it reasonable to infer
that this increased the Landlord’s utility costs, and therfore find the Tenant substantially interfered with the Landlord’s rights and interests.
 
24.    By the Landlord’s calculations he paid an additional
approximate $337.24. This was based on subtracting the average of other bills
from the higher bill which included the dates
the Landlord discovered the water running.
The Landlord also testified he heard the water running on other occasions but
could not prove the Tenant was responsible.
 
25.   
The Landlord was not able to
duplicate this calculation on the evidence provided and advised he had not
provided all bills on which he relied. While I was satisfied that the Landlord
had to pay increased utilities for the running water, I was not satisfied the
evidence on which the Landlord
based his claims
was sufficient to order the payment of damages. The Landlord’s request for
this compensation is denied.
 
Allegation Threatened and Threw Eggs at Another
Tenant’s Window - June 26, 2020
 
26.    The Landlord testified
he received a text from another tenant
advising the Tenant had threatened him at his front door and
threw eggs on his front window. The Landlord testified he was close by and went over right away and saw the result of the eggs that had been thrown at the windows. The
Landlord cleaned the windows.
 
27.    The Landlord testified the threatened tenant
left July 31, 2020. The Landlord also spoke
about other incidents between the two tenants.
As a result, the relationship between the incident
on June 26, 2020, and the threatened tenant’s leaving is not clear. The
threatened tenant did not testify at the hearing and no text was in evidence.
Even




 
accepting the undisputed evidence
there was a threat made and eggs thrown, I find the evidence as to impact on the other
tenant regarding this incident is insufficient.
 
28.    I find the Landlord has not proven
these actions amount
to substantial interference.
 
Additional Remedies
Requested
 
29.    As of the date of hearing, the Tenant was in possession of the rental unit.
 
30.    At the hearing, the Landlord sought daily
compensation. However, daily compensation was not included on the Landlord’s
application and the Tenant was not present. Therefore, I find that to amend the
application and add a request for daily compensation at this time is not appropriate as the Tenant had no notice
and would be prejudicial to the
Tenant. The Landlord’s request for daily compensation is denied.
 
31.   
The Landlord collected a rent deposit
of $938.00 from the Tenant
and this deposit
is still being held by the
Landlord.
 
32.    Interest on the rent deposit
is owing to the Tenant
for the period from May 1, 2020 to
July 20, 2020.
 
33.    The Landlord advised there is a separate voidable
order of the Board for eviction of the Tenant based on rent arrears that
addressed the return of the rent deposit (the “L1 Order”). The status of that voidable
order is unknown
and that application was not before me. However, to be clear, the
Landlord need only pay the Tenant the rent deposit once.
 
Relief from Eviction
 
34.    The Landlord sought
eviction.
 
35.    The Landlord testified to other issues with the Tenant
including keeping a messy unit, failing to take out garbage, bicycles in the
rental unit and yard, water running from his balcony, removal of a smoke alarm,
not parking in his assigned
parking spot and blocking
the garage, installing an unauthorized air conditioner without paying the
additional fee, and replacing the locks and failing to provide a copy of a key
until the investigation unit intervened.
 
36.    The Tenant was not present to provide any evidence or
submissions with respect to whether it would be appropriate to grant any form of relief from eviction
under subsection 83(1).
 
37.    I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 (the 'Act'). In the absence of any evidence from the Tenant, I find it
would be unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1) of
the Act.




 
It is ordered
that:
 
1.       
The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenant
is terminated, as of January
15, 2022. The Tenant must
move out of the rental unit on or before January 15, 2022.
 
2.       
If the unit is not vacated
on or before January 15, 2022, then starting January
16, 2022, the Landlord may
file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the
eviction may be enforced.
 
3.       
Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after January 16, 2022.
 
4.       
The Tenant shall pay to the Landlord $201.00
for the cost of filing the application.
 
5.       
The Landlord must pay the Tenant
the rent deposit
and interest owing under this order in the amount of $942.58, if the rent
deposit and interest owing under the
L1 Order has not already been paid.
The Landlord is authorized to offset $201.00 for the cost of filing the
application from the amount the Landlord owes the Tenant under this order.
 
6.       
The parties are entitled
to collect what is owing to them under this Order.
 
7.       
Any amounts owing under this order not paid on or before January
15, 2022, will start to owe interest. This will be simple
interest calculated from January 16, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
 
 
 
January 4, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Rebecca Case
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West, 6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order relating
to the eviction expires on July 10, 2022 if the order has not been
filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that
has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.

