Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-01
File number:	
SOL-26171-21

Citation:	Hildrop v Lorincz, 2022 CanLII 87190 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2h7>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
 
 
 
 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-26171-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


83 GUILDWOOD DRIVE HAMILTON ON L9C6S3


 




Between:


Deborah Hildrop


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Gabriella Lorincz


Tenant



 
 
 
Deborah Hildrop (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Gabriella
Lorincz (the 'Tenant') because the Landlord requires
possession of the rental unit for the purpose
of residential occupation. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day
the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard via video conference on January 12, 2022.
 
Only the Landlord and the Landlord’s Legal Representative Liam Walker attended
the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
 
1.     
For the reasons that follow, I find that the Landlord
in good faith
requires possession of the
rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation. The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenant will be
terminated.
 
2.     
The rental unit is a four level backsplit
semi-detached home with 3+1 bedrooms. The tenancy with the Tenant began on December 16, 2019.
 
3.     
Along with the Landlord’s L2 application, an N12 notice
of termination, certificate of service, declaration and Schedule B were completed and
attached.
 
4.     
On September 17, 2021 the Landlord
served an N12 notice of termination on the Tenant. The N12 notice states
that the Landlord
intends to move into the rental unit and occupy
it




 
for at least one year. The N12 notice sought possession of the rental
unit for December 15, 2021.
 
5.     
Section 48.1 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) requires the Landlord to provide compensation to the Tenant
in an amount equal to one month’s
rent where an N12
notice is served. The Landlord
testified that she waived the payment of rent for one
month’s rent and it was accepted
by the Tenant.
 
6.     
Section 72(1) of the Act states that the Board shall not make an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the tenant in an application under
section 69 based on,
 
(a)  
a
notice of termination given under section
48 on or after the day section
13 of the Rental
Fairness Act comes into force, unless
the landlord has filed an affidavit
sworn by the person who personally requires the rental unit certifying that the
person in good faith requires the rental unit for his or her own personal use
for a period of at least one year; or
 
(b)  
a
notice of termination under section 49, unless the landlord has filed with the
Board an affidavit sworn by the person who personally requires the rental unit
certifying that the person in good faith requires the rental unit for his or
her own personal use.
 
7.     
Section 192.1 of the Act,
states that where a provision
of the Act requires an affidavit from a person with respect to a specified
statement or specified information, the Rules may,
 
(a)  
authorize the use of another document,
which may be unsworn, from that person with respect to that specified
statement or specified information; and
 
(b)  
require that the document
may be used only if it is provided to the Board in
accordance with the Rules.
 
8.      The Landlord and Tenant Board’s
Rules of Procedures state at rule 1.5 that where the
Act requires an affidavit
respecting a specified statement or specified information, the Board will also
accept a signed and dated declaration containing the specified statement or specified information provided the declaration confirms the truth of the
information or statement and acknowledges that making a false declaration is an offense.
 
9.     
The Landlord provided a signed
declaration dated September 29, 2021 stating that she requires the rental unit for her own personal
residential use for a period of at least one year
as she and her two sons require the rental unit.
 
10.   The issue to be determined by the Board
is whether the Landlord has satisfied the “good
faith” requirement set out in subsection 48(1) of the Act which
provides:
 
A landlord may, by notice,
terminate a tenancy if the landlord in good faith requires possession of the rental
unit for the purpose of residential occupation for a period
of at least one year by,




 
 
 
(a)  
the landlord;
….
 
11.   The onus is on the Landlord to establish that the Landlord
in good faith requires the rental
unit for the purpose of residential occupation.
 
12.   In Salter v. Beljinac, 2001 CanLii 40231 (ON SCDC),
the Divisional Court determined that a
Landlord satisfied the “good faith” requirement to terminate a tenancy where the person identified in the notice of
termination genuinely intends to occupy the rental unit for residential
purposes.
 
13.   In Fava v. Harrison, [2014] O.J. No. 3352 (Ont.
Div.Ct.), the Court determined that while the
motives of the Landlord are, per Salter, “largely irrelevant”, the Board can consider the conduct and motives of the Landlord
to draw inferences as to whether the Landlord desires, in good faith, to occupy
the property.
 
14.  
In this case, the evidence from the Landlord
was that she and her two sons intend
to move into the rental unit
and that was what prompted the Landlord to give notice to vacate the rental
unit to the Tenants.
 
15.   The Landlord provided
clear, consistent and uncontested evidence
that she intends
to move into the rental unit for at least one year.
 
16.   On the basis of the uncontested evidence
before the Board, I have no reason to doubt the
truthfulness of the Landlord’s testimony or her good faith intentions. I am therefore satisfied on a balance
of probabilities that the Landlord,
in good faith, requires
possession of the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation
for a minimum of one year.
 
17.   Pursuant to section 83 of the Act, I am
required to consider all of the circumstances in the case including
both parties’ situations to determine if it would be appropriate to grant relief.
 
18.  
The Tenant did not attend the hearing to provide evidence
regarding their circumstances. The Landlord testified that she is unaware of any circumstances of the Tenant that would cause me to delay or deny eviction of the Tenant.
 
19.  
I have considered all of the
disclosed circumstances in accordance with section 83(2) of the Act and find that it would be unfair to grant relief
from eviction pursuant
to subsection 83(1) of the Act.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
 
1.    
The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenant
is terminated, as of
March 31, 2022. The Tenant must move out of the rental unit on or before
March 31, 2022.




 
2.    
If the unit is not vacated
on or before March 31, 2022, then starting
April 1, 2022 the
Landlord may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so
that the eviction may be enforced.
 
3.    
Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after April 1, 2022. The Sheriff
is requested to expedite the enforcement of this order.
 
 
 
February 1, 2022 Date Issued
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section
81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires
on September 30, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this
date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial
jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.

