Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-18
File number:	
SOL-22775-21-RV

Citation:	Luca v Martin, 2022 CanLII 70620 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jr933>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 21.2 of the
Statutory Powers
Procedure Act
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-22775-21-RV
 
 
In the matter of:      15 CLEVELAND STREET
THOROLD ON L2V3K3
 
Between:                  Matteson De Luca                                                                                        Landlord
 
 
and
 
John Martin                                                                                                                 Tenant
 
 
Review Order
 
Matteson De Luca (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict John Martin (the 'Tenant') because
the Landlord requires
possession of the rental unit for the purpose
of residential occupation.
 
This application was resolved
by order SOL-22775-21 issued on October
26, 2021.
 
On November 3, 2021, the Tenant
requested a review of the order alleging he was not reasonably able to participate in the hearing because
he did not receive the Notice of Hearing.
 
The request was heard by way of video
conference on January
11, 2022. The Landlord, the Tenant and the Tenant’s Legal
Representative, Joseph Tonnos attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
Request for Review
 
1.       
The Tenant testified that he never
received the Board’s
Notice of Hearing
for the hearing held on August 11, 2021. He further testified that he does not have a computer or an
email address, and the Landlord never gave him a copy of the Notice of Hearing.
 
2.       
The Tenant testified that he checked
his mail every day as his Representative told him that the
Notice of Hearing would be sent by the Board.
 
3.       
The Landlord testified that on several
occasions he told the Tenant
about the Board hearing, but confirmed he never gave
the Tenant a copy of the Notice of Hearing.
 
4.       
I
reviewed the Board’s
file and it suggests that the Board erred by not serving the Tenant and the Tenant’s Representative a copy of the Notice of
Hearing.




 
Findings
 
5.       
Based on the evidence
before me, on a balance
of probabilities, I am
satisfied that the Tenant was not reasonably able to participate in the Board hearing held on August
11, 2021. In making my finding, I
considered the Board’s service
error by not sending the Tenant and his Representative a copy of the Notice
of Hearing. In this circumstance, it would be procedurally unfair to deny the Tenant’s request to
review.
 
6.       
The Tenant’s request to review is granted.
 
New Hearing
of the Landlord’s L2 Application
 
Preliminary Issues
 
7.       
After most of the testimony of the
parties was complete, the Tenant’s Representative advised that he intended to call the Tenant’s
son as a Witness. The Tenant’s son was
present during the hearing and sitting with the Tenant.
 
8.       
On at least two occasions during
the Tenant’s testimony, I addressed the Tenant’s son about telling
the Tenant how to respond
to question being asked. I also clarified with the Tenant’s son his role
in the hearing to which the son responded that he was present for support. At
no point did the Tenant’s Representative advise that the Tenant’s son was going
to be called as a witness. When I asked the Tenant’s Representative why he did
not advise prior to the commencement of the hearing that he planned on calling
the Tenant’s son as a witness, the Tenant’s Representative responded that I did
not ask.
 
9.       
The Tenant’s Representative is a licensing under the Law Society. As such, he ought to have known that
witnesses are to be excluded. The onus is on the Tenant and his Representative
to present their case, including naming the witnesses they intend to call
during the proceedings. It is not the responsibility of the
Member to present the Tenant’s case.
 
10.   
As the Tenant’s Representative did
not take the appropriate steps in disclosing his witness and having the witness excluded
from the hearing,
I declined to hear the witness
evidence as it would be procedurally unfair to do so. In making this finding, I
considered that the Tenant’s proposed witness was present during the Landlord’s
and the Tenant’s testimony which lends issue with the credibility of the
proposed witness evidence. My finding is supported by the fact that I had to
address the Tenant’s son on at least two occasion during the hearing for
prompting the Tenant during his oral evidence.
 
L2 Application
 
Landlord’s Evidence
 
11.   
 On April 22, 2021, the Landlord
served the Tenant with an N12 Notice
of Termination (‘N12 notice’). The N12 notice contained a termination
date of June 30, 2021 and indicates that the Landlord’s mother will be moving
into the rental unit.




 
12.    The Landlord filed with the Board and served to the
Tenant a declaration completed by his mother. In the declaration, the
Landlord’s mother states that she needs to move into the rental unit as she must vacate her current residence. The Landlord’s mother
confirms that she will be living in the rental unit for at least 12
months.
 
13.    The Landlord testified that he paid the Tenant
compensation equal to one month’s
rent by way of personal
cheque. He testified that he filed
with the Board a certificate of service confirming the compensation was paid by
the termination date set out in the N12 notice. The Landlord testified that he
is sure he served the compensation with the N12 notice on April 22, 2021. During the hearing, the Landlord and I
were unable to locate in the certificate of service confirming the compensation
was paid by the termination date set out in
the N12 notice. After the hearing, I located a contemporaneous letter written by the
Landlord and filed with the Board in August 2021. The letter confirms
compensation was paid to the Tenant on June 30, 2021. This letter substantially
complies with the requirements of a certificate of service. The letter states that on June 30, 2021,
the Landlord hand delivered the Tenant compensation by way of personal cheque.
Attached to the letter is a personal cheque addressed to the Tenant and made
out in the amount equal to one month’s rent.
 
14.    The Landlord testified that the Tenant did not cash
the cheque dated June 30, 2021. Because the Tenant
did not cash the compensation cheque, on August 11, 2021,
the Landlord provided the Tenant with a bank draft equivalent to one
month’s rent. The Landlord testified that the Tenant accepted the payment.
 
15.    The Landlord testified that in good faith he requires
possession of the rental unit so that his mother can move in. The Landlord’s mother had to vacate her rental unit because her landlord served her an N12 notice. Because the Tenant has not moved out of
the rental unit, the Landlord’s mother has been staying with a third party. The Landlord’s mother is waiting on this
issue to be resolved so she can move into the rental unit.
 
Tenant’s Evidence
 
16.    The Tenant confirmed he received the N12 notice, a
copy of the declaration and the compensation.
However, the Tenant disputes the date the compensation was served. It is the Tenant’s position that the
Landlord served the personal cheque on July 1, 2021, and not June 30, 2021. The Tenant testified that he recalls
seeing the Landlord placing the compensation
in his mailbox on July 1, 2021. The
Tenant had no evidence to support
his position and testified that his son did not witness the Landlord putting
the compensation in the mailbox. The Tenant further confirmed that he did not
cash the compensation cheque dated June 30, 2021 but did accept the bank draft
given to him by the Landlord on August 11, 2021.
 
17.    The Tenant testified that he did not move out of the
rental unit because he does not believe the Landlord.
The Tenant testified that it is his position that the Landlord
has lied to him before so he has no good reason to believe that the
Landlord’s mother will be moving into the rental unit. The Tenant testified that he has no evidence to support his
position, it is just his belief.




 
18.   
The Tenant testified that he is 70 years old and retired. He has looked for another place to
live, but to date his attempts have not been successful. The Tenant testified
that the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic
has impacted his efforts in finding a new place to live.
 
19.    The Tenant’s Representative submitted that the
Landlord’s application should be dismissed because pursuant
to section 48.1 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (‘the Act’), the Landlord did not
pay compensation by the termination date set out in the N12 notice.
 
Analysis and Findings
 
Was Compensation paid?
 
20.    I am satisfied on a balance of probabilities that the
Landlord paid compensation equal to one month’s rent by the termination date set out in
the N12 notice. In making this finding,
I considered the best evidence before me being the contemporaneous letter
written by the Landlord confirming that on June 30, 2021, he hand delivered the
Tenant compensation equal to one month’s
rent. This contemporaneous letter does vary from the Landlord’s evidence that he was sure
he believes he served the compensation with the N12 notice on April 22, 2021. However, I am satisfied that with the
passage of time, being approximately 9 months, since the N12 notice was served,
there may be variance or discrepancies in the dates. The passage of time also
lends the possibility of there being discrepancies in the Tenant’s recollection
of when he received the compensation cheque.
This is why I say that the best evidence before me for which I have
based my decision that compensation was paid by the termination date is the
contemporaneous letter written by the Landlord which is on file with the Board. Further, this letter meets all the
substantive requirements of a certificate of service.
 
Good Faith?
 
21.    The onus is on the Landlord to establish that the Landlord
in good faith requires the rental
unit for the purpose of residential occupation by his mother.
 
22.    In the leading
case law involving the landlord’s own use application, Salter v. Belijnac,
2001 CanLII 40231 (ON SCDC), [2001], O.J. No. 2792 (Div. Ct.), the Divisional Court held that:
 
…the test of good faith is genuine
intention to occupy the premises
and not the reasonableness of the landlord’s proposal.
 
23.    Thus, the Landlord
must establish that his mother genuinely intends
to move into the rental unit.
The Court also found in Salter that the landlord’s motives are “largely irrelevant”.
 
24.    The Landlord’s provided clear and consistent evidence
that his mother needs to move into the rental
unit because she had to vacate
her residence after
receiving an N12 notice from her landlord. In support of his position
the Landlord provided
the Board with a signed declaration from his mother
indicating she will be moving into the rental unit for a period of at least 12 months.




 
25.    The Tenant did not provide
evidence that reasonably challenged the Landlord’s evidence that his mother genuinely wants to move into the rental
unit for a period of at least one year. I
have no reason to doubt the truthfulness of the Landlord’s testimony or his
good faith intentions. I am therefore satisfied on the balance of probabilities
that the Landlord, in good faith requires possession of the rental unit for the
purpose of residential occupation by his mother for a minimum of one year.
 
Section 83 Considerations
 
26.   
I
have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to postpone the
eviction until February 18, 2022 pursuant to subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act. In making
this determination, I take
judicial notice that the province
of Ontario is currently in stage two of the COVID-19
pandemic restrictions. The Tenant’s age combined with the
pandemic restrictions may negatively impact his ability to secure new housing
in a timely manner. As such,
postponing the eviction to give the Tenant additional time to move out of the
rental unit is a just and reasonably decision.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.       
Order SOL-22775-21 issued on October 23, 2021 is cancelled and replaced by the
following:
 
2.       
The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenant
is terminated, as of February
18, 2022. The Tenant must move out of the rental unit on or before
February 18, 2022.
 
3.       
If the unit is not vacated
on or before February 18, 2022, then starting February
19, 2022, the Landlord may
file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the
eviction may be enforced.
 
4.       
Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after February 19, 2022.
 
 
January 18, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Dawn Wickett
Member, Landlord and Tenant
Board
Southern-RO
119 King Street West, 6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81
of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires on August 18, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

