Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-06
File number:	
SOL-17539-20-RV

Citation:	1782855 Ontario Ltd v Hewitson, 2022 CanLII 54162 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpx42>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 21.2 of the
Statutory Powers
Procedure Act
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-17539-20-RV
 
 
In the matter of:      MAIN & 2ND FLOOR, 14 EVELYN STREET
BRANTFORD ON N3R3G9
 
Between:                  1782855 Ontario Ltd                                                                                     Landlord
 
 
and
 




Rob Hewitson Stephanie Hewitson


Tenants




 
 
Review Order
 
1782855 Ontario Ltd (the
'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Stephanie Hewitson
and Rob Hewitson (the 'Tenants') because the Tenants
did not pay the rent that the Tenants owe (the ‘L1
Application’).
 
The Landlord applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
the Tenants because: 1) the Tenants, another occupant of the rental unit or someone they permitted
in the residential complex
have substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest of the Landlord or another
tenant; and 2) because
the Tenants have been persistently late in paying their
rent (the ‘L2 Application’).
 
This application was resolved
by order SOL-17539-20 issued on July 26, 2021.
 
On August 18, 2021, the
Tenants requested a review of the order and
that the order be stayed until
the request to review the order is resolved.
 
On August 20, 2021,
interim order SOL-17539-20-RV-IN was issued, staying
the order issued
on July 26, 2021.
 
The request was heard
by videoconference on December 3, 2021.
 
The Landlord’s Legal Representative, Jackie
Struthers, and the Landlord’s Agent,
Sandy Postma, attended the hearing. As of 2:17 p.m. the Tenants were not present or represented at the hearing although properly served with
notice of this hearing by the Board.




 
Determinations:
 
The Tenants’
Request to Reschedule
 
1.     
A
request to review was granted
on a preliminary basis of the Tenants
not having been able to reasonably participate.
 
2.     
This request to review
was before me on December
3, 2021. The Tenants did not attend.
 
3.     
After the hearing it came to my
attention that the Tenant, Stephanie Hewitson (the “Tenant”), sent a
communication to the Board the day before the hearing. In this communication she advised that due to the death
of her grandfather she would not be in
the right frame of mind to represent herself and requested a rescheduling of
the review hearing without prejudice. No details were provided as to the date
of the passing of her family member nor the correlation between this and the
ability of an agent or the other Tenant to attend the hearing.
 
4.     
Rules 21.1, 21.2 and 21.4 of the Landlord
and Tenant Board
Rules (the ‘Rules’)
are relevant insofar as they provide for the conditions under which a
hearing may be rescheduled:
 
Rescheduling
21.1        
Parties may agree to ask the
LTB to reschedule a CMH or hearing prior to the scheduled date. The request to
reschedule must be on consent of all parties and received by the LTB as soon as reasonably possible and not less than 5 business
days before the scheduled date. Consent is required even where the notice
of hearing and application have not been delivered to the responding parties.
 
21.2        
A request to reschedule a CMH
or hearing received by the LTB less than 5 business days prior to the scheduled date or not on consent
of all the parties may be granted if a Member or Hearing
Officer is satisfied that it was not reasonably possible for the party making
the request to comply with Rule 21.1.
 
21.4     Parties must contact the LTB
to learn whether the request is granted and, if granted, the date of the rescheduled CMH or hearing.
If the request is denied, the CMH or hearing will proceed on
the scheduled date.
 
5.     
The Tenant’s communication was
sent the day before the hearing, not five days in advance as required by the
Rules. A request to reschedule is also to be on consent. The Tenant’s communication does not show they attempted to get
the Landlord’s consent. The communication sent to the Board was not copied to
the Landlord or the Landlord’s Representative
and, at the hearing, the Landlord made no mention of the Tenant’s request to reschedule. On the balance of probabilities, I find the Tenant did not advise
the Landlord of their request
to reschedule.




 
6.     
A
request to reschedule may be granted
where it is not on consent
or in compliance with the
Rules where I am satisfied it was not possible for the party to comply with the
requirements. The communication from the Tenant does not address why she did
not comply with the Rules.
 
7.     
Additionally, the Rules require
the parties to contact the Board to determine if their request has been granted or denied and,
where denied, the hearing will proceed on the date scheduled.
 
8.     
Here, the Tenant received no
response to her request to reschedule and did not make an effort to attend the
review hearing and request an adjournment nor did she send a representative to
request an adjournment on her behalf. The communication contained insufficient details
regarding the basis
for the request
or why this prevented her from doing anything other than sending an email. I also note that there are in fact two Tenants and no
explanation was provided why the other tenant could not attend.
 
9.     
As a result, the Tenant’s request
to reschedule the review hearing
is denied.
 
10. Since the
Tenants did not appear at the hearing
to support this review, I find the request to review has been abandoned.
The Landlord’s Request for Costs
11. The Landlord sought
costs for the Tenants’ Request
to Review. The Landlord’s request
for costs may be divided into three categories: additional rent arrears
since the review, the Legal Representative’s fees on the review, and the effect
of the review on the Landlord’s Agent.
 
12. An award of costs is discretionary. Rules 23.2 and
23.3 provide for ordering another party’s costs. Under Rule 23.2 costs are limited to representation/preparation fees and out of pocket costs. The hourly rate for
a paid representative is capped at $100.00 to a maximum of $700.00. Rule 23.3
does not specify the types of costs that may be awarded but does provide a
party must have engaged in unreasonable conduct that caused undue delay or
expense.
 
13. The Board’s Costs: Interpretation Guideline 3 provides costs
to a successful party will generally only be awarded where
conduct is unreasonable. Unreasonable conduct is discussed, in part as
follows:.
 
Conduct is unreasonable if it causes
undue expense or delay and includes the following:
 
1.     
Bringing a frivolous or vexatious application or motion;
2.     
Initiating an application or any procedure in bad faith;
3.     
Taking unnecessary steps in a proceeding; …
 
11. Maligning another party
or unreasonably slurring
the character of the other
party.




 
 
 
14. The Landlord’s Representative relied on the above
provisions in Guideline 3. They submitted the Tenants’
Request to Review
was frivolous, brought
without any intention to attend, and was done so that the Tenants could live for
another four month’s rent free.
 
15. As evidence of bad faith in the filing of the review
the Landlord relies on the Tenants’ failure to attend the review hearing, and
failure to make any rental payments since the review was filed which meant the
incurring of an additional four month’s of arrears. The Landlord’s Agent
testified the Tenant said she would never see another dime from her. She also testified that after the Request to Review was granted preliminarily, the Tenant,
Stephanie Hewitson, told the Landlord that she loved the tribunal.
 
16. With respect to the request for the four additional
months of arrears, costs are not an alternate
vehicle for seeking
unpaid rent. When this application was filed, the rent
arrears were above the jurisdiction
of the Board and the Landlord chose to proceed.
As a result, I find no
costs are available for the additional missed rental payments.
 
17. With respect to the other two categories of costs
sought, the Landlord’s Representative advised they spent a total of three hours
on the Request to Review and the Landlord testified the Review has taken time and has been stressful. No medical or other supporting evidence was provided.
 
18. Costs are not to be ordered in a way that would
discourage parties from exercising their statutory rights. Here, the Tenants
availed themselves of the Request to Review process and the Request to Review was granted preliminarily. As a result,
I do not find the Tenants’
conduct was unreasonable.
 
19. The Landlord’s request
for costs is denied.
It is ordered
that:
 
1.       
The request to review
order SOL-17539-20 issued
on July 26, 2021, is denied. The order
is confirmed and remains unchanged.
 
2.       
The interim order issued
on August 20, 2021, is cancelled. The stay of order SOL-17539- 20 is lifted.
 
 








 
 
Rebecca Case




 


January 6, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant
Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West, 6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7




 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

