Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-08
File number:	
SOL-21457-21

Citation:	8914273 Canada Limited v Pullyblank, 2022 CanLII 94589 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsd1l>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 68
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-21457-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


1,
  519 MARY STREET HAMILTON ON L8L4X6


 




Between:


Joanne Sanson
8914273 Canada Limited


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Pauline
  Pullyblank


Tenant



 
 
Joanne Sanson and 8914273 Canada
Limited (the 'Landlords') applied for an
order to terminate the tenancy and evict Pauline
Pullyblank (the 'Tenant')
because the Tenant,
another occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant
permitted in the residential complex has substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlords or
another tenant.
 
This application was heard by
videoconference on September 29,
2021.
 
The Landlord Ms. Sanson,
the Landlord’s legal representative Steven Smith and the Tenant attended the hearing.
 
Reasons:
 
Background
 
1.    
The Landlord’s application relies
on a second non-voidable N5 Notice of Termination with a termination date of April 15, 2021
given to the Tenant on March 18, 2021 under subsections 64(1) and 68(1) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’), which provide:
 
64 (1) A landlord may give a
tenant notice of termination of the tenancy if the conduct of the tenant,
another occupant of the rental unit or a person permitted in the residential complex by the tenant is such that it substantially interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the
residential complex for all usual purposes by the landlord or another tenant or
substantially interferes with another lawful right, privilege or interest of
the landlord or another tenant.
 
68 (1) A landlord
may give a tenant notice of termination of the tenancy
if,




 
(a)    
a
notice of termination was given to the tenant
under section 62, 64 or 67; and
 
(b)    
more than seven days but less than
six months after the notice mentioned in clause (a) was given to the tenant, an
activity takes place, conduct occurs or a situation arises that constitutes
grounds for a notice of termination under section
60, 61, 62, 64 or 67, other than an activity,
conduct or a situation that is described in subsection 61 (1) and that
involves an illegal act, trade, business or occupation described in clause 61
(2) (a).
 
2.     Schedule A to the first voidable N5 details
allegations of cigarette smoking in the rental unit, disturbing other tenants
of the residential complex, between January 4, 2021 and February 18, 2021. The second N5 asserts that another tenant
of the residential complex
reported that their unit was very smoky and smelled of cigarette smoke on March
17, 2021 at 5:53 p.m.
 
Evidence
 
3.    
The Tenant testified that she has
lived in the rental unit for 10-years, that there were never any problems before the current
Landlords took over the
residential complex and that she rented a smoking unit to
avoid this issue.
 
4.     The Tenant did not dispute that there was “smoking” in
the rental unit on all of the days specified in the Landlords’ notices of termination or that the smoke
can travel through the air vents
to neighbouring units. Rather, the Tenant testified that “smoking” is another
term for “smudging” and that all of the instances reported on the
Landlord’s N5 notices of termination were ceremonies conducted by her daughter,
who is a member of the Old Crow First Nations community in the Yukon.
 
5.     The Tenant testified that she informed
the Landlord of this practice,
which the Landlord Ms. Sanson denied.
 
6.     The Tenant denied on
cross-examination that there is any cigarette smoking in the rental unit
and that all smoking takes place outside of the residential complex. Ms. Sanson
confirmed in direct examination that the Tenant
has told her that her daughter
smokes for non-ceremonial purposes outside.
 
Analysis
 
7.    
The Tenant’s position is that the
Landlord is required to accommodate the cultural practice of “smoking” or smudging. On this point, the Tenant cites the Ontario Human Rights Commission’s Policy
on Preventing Discrimination Based on Creed, especially
Part II, 11, which addresses indigenous spiritual practices, including the
following:
 
The smudging ceremony is a common
purification rite performed in Ontario that
 
involves burning one or more sacred
medicines, such as sweetgrass, sage,
cedar and tobacco. There are many variations on how a smudge is done. The
OHRC




 
heard that people often faced barriers
when seeking to smudge. This was often due to a lack of clear protocols and inclusive design
measures to facilitate the practice in a timely and appropriate way.
 
Smudging may sometimes be required at unpredictable times –
for example, at a
time of death in a hospital, or a moment of crisis during the school or work
day.
Where smudging accommodation
needs are known to potentially exist, organizations should take proactive steps to facilitate the practice in a dignified
and timely way.
 
Failure to accommodate a person’s Indigenous spiritual belief or practice in a timely and appropriate way may be
discriminatory under the Code.
 
The Tenant also argued
that there are no harmful
effects from the natural tobacco
and that the Landlords’ concerns about adverse health effects are
incorrect.
 
8.     The Landlord’s position
was that the Tenant did not deny the conduct
and that the Tenant’s evidence about the use of
ceremonial tobacco should not be believed.
 
9.     I disagree with the Landlord that the Tenant admitted
to the conduct specified in the Landlord’s N5 notices. The Tenant did not admit
to smoking cigarettes and she in fact denied that there was any cigarette smoking in the rental unit during the
relevant period. What the Tenant did admit to was that her daughter only smokes
outside and that her daughter engaged in the burning of tobacco for ceremonial
purposes for the purpose of addressing negative feelings,
including from the neighbours. In these circumstances, the key questions for me are whether I accept the Tenant’s
evidence and, if I do, the impact of the Human Rights Code.
 
10.  These reasons explain
why I reject the Tenant’s
testimony to the effect that the source of
the smoke on the dates particularized on the Landlord’s notices of termination
was the ceremonial use of tobacco.
 
11.  First, the Tenant raised the issue of the ceremonial
use of tobacco just prior to the hearing. This was an entirely
different from the Tenant’s previous
submissions and the evidence attached to those
submissions.
 
12.  The Tenant’s July 21, 2021 submission reproduces a
copy of a July 16, 2019 blog-post entitled “Cannabis Smoke Bothering Other Tenants”. This blog-post provides legal information to
landlords about how to address the concerns of tenants in their buildings who
are complaining about cannabis smoke, the smell of smoke infiltrating other
units, smoke drifting through open windows and smoke coming through shared
ventilation systems. This submission also reproduces the following text from the Board’s frequently asked questions page, in part:
“Your neighbours can smoke in their private homes, unless they signed a lease
or there are condominium bylaws that say they can't. However, if second-hand
smoke (tobacco or marijuana) from another unit is interfering with the
reasonable enjoyment of your home, speak to your landlord.” This submission
also attaches information from the Landlord’s Self-Help Centre:




 
The first thing you should try
is writing a letter to the tenants advising them that the smoke is bothering
you and request that they smoke outside. If they do not comply you could then
serve them with the legal notice (Form N5) that states that they are
interfering with your reasonable enjoyment of the premises. When they are
served with this notice they have seven days to correct the problem and if not
corrected then you can file an application with the Landlord
and Tenant Board
to terminate the tenancy. It is uncertain that you
would be successful in this case because the tenants could argue that their
tenancy agreement did not include a non-smoking clause.
 
13.  Apart from the Tenant’s submissions just prior to the
hearing, the bulk of the Tenant’s evidence,
including the passages
quoted above, does not refer
in any way to the cultural
practice of smudging. It strikes me as odd that the Tenant would provide
information about her right to smoke non-ceremonial tobacco in the rental unit
if the ceremonial use of the tobacco was the true source of the smoke other
tenants were complaining about.
 
14.  Second, although the Tenant testified that she
informed the Landlord that the smoke emanating from the unit was tied to the
cultural practice of smoking or smudging, the Tenant did not produce any
corroborating evidence to this effect. However, the Landlord did introduce
a January 14, 2021 letter from the Tenant to the Landlords. In that letter,
the Tenant asserts that she did not sign a tenancy agreement that
prohibits smoking and asserts that “myself
+ friends or relatives are also free to smoke in this unit”.
The Tenant’s testimony to the effect
that the word “smoke” should be read as “smudge” is inconsistent with the
Tenant’s testimony to the effect that only her daughter engages in this
cultural practice. In other words, in the absence of evidence to the effect
that friends and other relatives also engage in this practice, it is clear to
me that the Tenant responded to the Landlord’s claim about smoking by asserting
a general right to permit non-ceremonial tobacco use in the rental unit.
 
15.  In these circumstances, I do not have trouble
concluding that the Tenant behaved in accordance with her stated intention to
permit others to use non-ceremonial tobacco in the rental unit. As it was
uncontested that this smoke was disturbing other tenants of the residential complex,
my finding is that the Landlord has proven this ground of termination
on the balance of probabilities.
 
Relief from
Eviction
 
16.  Subsection 83(2) of the Act requires me to consider
the circumstances of both parties and to consider whether or not to
refuse eviction or order that the enforcement of the eviction order be
postponed for a period of time.
 
17.  I accept that both parties
are in a difficult position.
 
18.  The Tenant’s uncontested testimony, which I accept, is that she has been a tenant
of the residential complex for
10-years, that she rented a unit where smoking was permitted at the outset of
her tenancy, that she has a fixed income and that she is willing to explore
options to reduce the impact of smoke on other tenants of the residential complex,
such as by opening the windows and using an air purifier.




 
19.  As the Tenant has been permitted to smoke in the
rental unit since the outset of her tenancy,
the Landlord cannot unilaterally remove this right,
for example by promulgating a no smoking policy. As a result, the
Landlord’s first N5 notice of termination, which demands that all smoking
inside the Tenant’s unit stop “at any time by anyone”, may go too far.
 
20.  That being said, the Tenant’s exercise of her right to
smoke places the Tenant at risk of eviction if smoking substantially interferes
with the reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex for all usual purposes
by the landlord or another tenant or substantially interferes with another
lawful right, privilege or interest of the landlord or another tenant:
North Avenue Road Corporation v Travares, 2015 ONSC 6986 (CanLII);
TEL-74017-16-RV (Re), 2016 CanLII 100370 (ON LTB).
 
21.  The Landlord is in a difficult position
because the Landlord
has a responsibility to provide
the other residents of the residential complex with quiet enjoyment of their
rental units and the residential complex. A failure
by the Landlord to address
the issue on application could result in legal jeopardy
for the Landlord.
 
22.  In balancing the interests of both parties, it is in
my view relevant to note that the landlord in Traveres, above, took active
steps to address
the issue of smoking emanating from the unit in
question before seeking eviction. As the Court noted, the landlord blocked the
air vents, sealed the baseboards, installed larger fans on the roof, sealed the
thresholds under the doors and checked the plumbing and closet areas. The
tenant in that case had purchased air purifiers, placed a fan in his window and
smoked on the balcony.
 
23.  In the present case, the Landlord is aware that smoke
is travelling through shared doorways and through heating and air vents because
this is what other tenants are complaining about. However, unlike the situation
in Traveres, the Landlord did not lead any evidence of any active steps
taken by the Landlord to find a solution that would balance the Tenant’s right
to smoke in the rental unit with the rights of other tenants of the residential
complex. In these circumstances, including where the Tenant testified that she
is willing to explore options to address the impact of smoke on other tenants
of the residential complex, my view is that it would be premature to terminate
the tenancy or provide conditional relief
from eviction until the parties
have had an opportunity to explore
potential solutions.
 
24.  For these reasons,
my conclusion is that it would not be unfair to refuse eviction under paragraph 83(1)(a) of the Act.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
 




February 8, 2022 Date Issued
Southern-RO



 
 
Douglas
Wilkins Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

