Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-22
File number:	
SOL-26173-21

Citation:	Roma Construction (Niagara) Limited v Boychuk, 2022 CanLII 108681 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jt2dd>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-26173-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


301, 116 QUEENSTON STREET ST. CATHARINES ON L2R2Z3


 




Between:


Roma Construction (Niagara) Limited


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Heather Boychuk
  Jacquie Boychuk


Tenants



 
 
 
Roma Construction (Niagara)
Limited (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Jacquie
Boychuk and Heather
Boychuk (the 'Tenants') because the Landlord intends to do major repairs or
renovations to the rental unit.
 
This application was heard via video conference on January 12, 2022.
 
The Landlord’s Representative Joe Perlingieri, the Tenant’s Legal Representative Joshua McDougall and the Tenant, Heather
Boychuk attended the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.     This is an application by the Landlord
for an order terminating the tenancy because
the Landlord wants to do extensive repairs or renovations to the rental
unit.
 
2.     The application is dismissed because
I am not satisfied on a balance
of probabilities that the rental unit must be vacated to
complete the repairs or renovations.
 
3.    
The Landlord served the Tenants
with an N13 notice of termination on July 27, 2021. The termination date on the
N13 notice of termination was November 30, 2021. The Landlord checked the box on the N13 indicating that they required the rental unit to be
vacant in order to do repairs or renovations so extensive that they are required to get a building permit and the rental unit must
be vacant to do the work.




 
 
 
4.    
The N13 notice of termination was served pursuant
to section 50(1)(b)
of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) which states:
 
50(1) A landlord may give notice
of termination of a tenancy
if the landlord requires
possession of the rental unit in order to,
(a)  
demolish it ;
(b)  
convert it to use for a purpose other than residential premises; or
(c)  
do repairs or renovations to it that are so extensive that they require
a building permit and vacant possession of the rental unit.
 
5.     Pursuant to section 53 of the Act, the Tenants
did indicate their first right of refusal to occupy the rental unit as a tenant when the repairs
or renovations are completed. This notice was given to the Landlord on
November 24, 2021 via registered mail.
 
6.    
The Landlord’s representative
(‘J.P’) testified that there are 14 units in the residential complex and that
the Tenants’ rental unit must have all new wiring installed as it is currently knob and tube wiring. J.P. expects the work to take 10-14 days if the rental
unit is empty. The work
entails cutting into the walls to replace the wiring, then the walls would have to be repaired and repainted. As well, the window
sills of the rental unit have
to be inspected for possible rot and a portion of the hardwood flooring has be
sanded as some wood boards have raised due to water damage.
 
7.     J.P. provided a copy of a document at the hearing
entitled “Invoice” from the Electrical Safety Authority which states that he
has notified the Authority of electrical work for unit 301 at 116 Queenston
Street, St. Catharines. I am satisfied on a balance
of probabilities that this is
a required document as set out in section 50 of the Act. The invoice sets out the address for the
apartment renovation, provides an account number and a licence number. I find that the renovations at issue
required a permit and the Landlord
obtained the necessary permits. The
central issue at the hearing was whether the Landlord satisfied the vacant
possession requirement.
 
Is vacant possession required?
 
8.    
J.P. testified that vacant
possession of the rental unit is required because the walls and ceiling will
have to be cut into to access the wiring and pull the wiring through. As well, the drywall underneath the window sills will have to be cut to do inspections, repaired and then
painted. The Landlord
also wants to repair wood flooring that has become damaged
due to water.
 
9.     Due to the
large volume of items and furniture in the Tenant’s rental unit and to a large number of fixtures on the walls
and ceilings, J.P. stated that he will be blocked from having access
to the areas in the rental unit that need renovating. J.P. testified that he
needs to have a clearance of at least 3 feet to walk around the unit to affect
the renovations and repairs.
 
10.  The Landlord testified that he is concerned that the
proposed work will pose safety hazards for the Tenants
as there will be no power to the rental
unit and wires will be laid




 
throughout the rental unit. However, the Tenants stated, and the
Landlord acknowledged, that similar
work performed in the other rental units in the residential
complex did not require those tenants to vacate their rental units.
 
11.  Correspondence dated July 6, 2021 from Alex Di Leo of
Di Leo Electric stated that he was retained to replace deteriorating knob and tube wiring at the rental
unit but that when
he attended to affect those replacements, the rental unit was very congested
and had a large number of items on
the walls and ceilings which would have to
be removed. Mr. Di Leo stated that the Tenants had many appliances plugged
into the same receptable and that additional outlets would be required. Due to the condition of the rental unit,
Mr. Di Leo felt it was unsafe for
him to proceed with the project.
Absent any objective,
concrete evidence to the contrary, I am not prepared to find that the nature of
the work described for this project would pose a safety hazard to the Tenants
that would merit ordering vacant possession of the unit.
 
12.  The Tenants testified that they are willing to put their belongings into the centre
of the room so that the work
can be completed but would require a weeks notice.
 
13.  Based on the evidence before me, I am not satisfied that the Landlord
requires vacant possession of
the rental unit to do the outstanding repairs and renovations. I find that
vacant possession is not required because the rental unit will not be
substantially impacted by the repairs or renovations and the Landlord’s
evidence was that it was a relatively fast project to complete. If the Landlord experiences difficulty
with gaining access to the rental until to affect the repairs and renovations,
it has other remedies available to it.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
 
February 22, 2022
Date Issued
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

