Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-21
File number:	
SOL-17071-20

Citation:	Kukielka  v Arn, 2022 CanLII 80927 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrshd>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-17071-20
 
 
In the matter of:      5, 246 MARLBOROUGH STREET
BRANTFORD ON N3S4T3
 




Between:                  Bozena Kukielka Adam Skrzyprek


Landlords




 
 
and
 
Joe Arn                                                                                                                 Tenant
 
 
 
Bozena Kukielka and Adam
Skrzyprek (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Joe Arn (the 'Tenant') because they intend to do major repairs
or renovations to the rental unit. The Landlords also
claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the
termination date.
 
This application was heard by video conference on June 23, 2021.
 
The Landlords, the Landlord's Legal Representative Jackie Struthers, the Tenant, the Tenant's
Legal Representative Joel Yinger attended the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.       
The Landlords applied for an order
terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenant because the Landlords require
the rental unit to be vacated in order to do major
repairs and/or renovations to the rental unit.
 
2.       
The Tenant is in possession of the rental unit. The monthly rent is $700.00.
 
3.       
On September 23, 2020 the Landlords
served an N13 Notice
to End Your Tenancy with a
termination date of January 31, 2021.
 
4.       
In the Notice, the Landlords state that the necessary repairs
and renovations planned within the Tenant’s unit are as
follows:
•        
Remove and re-install drywall
•        
Remove and re-install new electric wires, plumbing and duct work
•        
Install new fixtures in the kitchen
and bathroom, as necessary
•        
Remove and install new flooring throughout the unit




 
•        
Complete any other unknown
repairs that might become apparent
during the renovations
 
5.       
The Landlords paid the Tenant the required compensation by bank draft dated January 19, 2021 pursuant to sections 52 and 55.1
of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the ‘Act’).
 
6.       
The Landlords submitted Building
Permit 20 004878
000 to the Board, which was
approved by the City of Brantford on November 25, 2020.
 
7.       
The Tenant’s position is that the
Landlords have failed to satisfy the technical requirements of the Act and have served the N13 Notice
in bad faith. The Tenant asks for
the application to be dismissed.
 
8.       
I have carefully reviewed the
documentary evidence before me, the testimony of the Landlords and the Tenant,
as well as that of their respective witnesses, and I have considered the parties’ submissions. I refer to the material
facts and relevant
evidence below.
 
The Evidence of the Landlords
 
The Landlord
B.K.
 
9.       
The Landlord B.K. testified
that there is significant water leaking from the
foundation into the Tenant’s
basement unit when it rains. Her evidence is that most, if not all, of the
drywall in the unit needs to be removed
in order to assess the source of the leak and the repairs needed. Once the source has
been identified, the remedial work can begin.
 
10.    B.K. testified that all of the renovations listed on the N13 Notice
are necessary. Because the interior and exterior work is
so extensive, the Tenant will have to vacate the unit for the duration.
 
11.    She applied for a building
permit to the City of Brantford. The permit was subsequently
approved.
 
12.    B.K. then obtained
a quote from Bax-Pol LED Lights Inc., dated June 18,
2021, in relation to the proposed work inside the
unit, which includes:
•        
$10,000.00 -remove drywall, baseboards, insulation, kitchen cabinets, appliances and flooring, and locate the water leak in the
concrete foundation and concrete floor slab
•        
$1,300.00 – repair the concrete walls
and footings, and install drywall
 
13.    Additionally, the quote includes costs for repair work
required to the exterior of the building. The primary work includes excavating
the ground to locate the water leak in the foundation walls and footings, with damp proofing
below grade, and backfilling with gravel
and soil. The quote also includes the secondary cost of replacing the deck and
the




 
driveway. The total estimate
is $59,664.00. The estimate does not include
painting or other finishing
work within the unit.
 
14.    B.K. testified that she asked for the quote about one
month before the contractor delivered it, which would have been in May 2021. This was approximately 8-9 months
after service of the N13 Notice and the application for the building permit.
 
15.    The Tenant’s Legal
Representative asked B.K. why the water leak repair was not listed
in the N13 Notice. She said she missed putting it in. Later, she said
she believed the leak repairs were encompassed in the work to be done on the
exterior walls and fit into the category of “unknown repairs that might become
apparent” as set out in the Notice.
 
16.   
In response to a question about
whether the floor plan submitted to the City planning department describes any repairs or renovations that do not
need a permit, B.K. replied: “If you think so.” When asked if the City had determined during the approval
process that the unit cannot
be rented out to tenants, her response was “That is your opinion.”
 
17.   
B.K. testified that, at some point
in the past, the Tenant expressed to her that he was unhappy with the water
leaking and informed her that he wished to vacate the unit. She stated that she will re-rent it to the Tenant if he
wishes, with no increase in the rent once it is ready for possession. B.K. testified
that the Landlords have never asked the Tenant to pay increased rent.
 
The Landlord
A.S.
 
18.    The Landlord A.S. has 30 years of construction experience. He testified that he had identified the water leak long before
the Tenant moved in.
 
19.    He stated
that his relationship with the Tenant has been relatively good. He said that he had done the Tenant a favour by allowing
him to live temporarily in the unit. He denies ever asking the Tenant to pay
increased rent.
 
20.     A.S. was adamant that he only wants to fix the water
leak and that this was the only reason for the N13 Notice.
No other renovations were necessary because
everything was good in the
unit. He is not concerned about the electrical system, the plumbing or the
ducts. A.S. estimates that it will take approximately five months for the leak
repairs to be completed. He testified that the Tenant could not reside in the
unit during this period.
 
21.    A.S. stated that nothing has been repaired in the
Tenant’s unit for a long time. No one inspected the unit for the water leak
prior to the N13 Notice being served. Upon questioning by the Tenant’s Legal
Representative, he stated that the reason the electrical, plumbing and duct
work may have been included in the N13 Notice was likely because they are looking
to the future, not because
this work is necessary in the present.
 
22.    When questioned as to why he provided evidence
contradictory to the Landlord B.K.’s testimony
regarding the repairs
B.K. claims are necessary, he explained that he was in
Poland at the time.




 
The Evidence
of T.S.
 
23.    T.S. is the brother of the Landlords. He denied ever advising any of the tenants in the
residential complex that their rent would need to be increased.
 
24.    T.S. is married to E.S., whose father is the respondent Tenant
J.A. T.S. testified
that he is separated from E.S.. Knowing that E.S.
will be a witness for her father at this hearing, he stated that E.S. is
testifying for the opposing party because she wants to destroy him.
 
25.   
In response to questioning by the Tenant’s
Legal Representative about a conversation that occurred between E.S., J.A. and himself at a Christmas dinner in December 2020 regarding an increase in J.A.’s rent,
T.S. testified that there was no such conversation.
 
The Evidence of the Tenant
 
26.   
The Tenant J.A. testified that
water seeps into his unit from the west wall underneath the kitchen cupboards
and the bathroom. Water also leaks from a window due to a faulty drainage pipe.
The leaking occurs about 3-4 times per year during the spring thaw and when it
rains. He stated that the Landlords have been aware of the issue for the entire
6 years he has lived there but have never inspected the unit to assess
the leak or made the necessary repairs.
 
27.   
J.A. testified that there are no
problems with the heating, plumbing or electrical systems in the unit. He stated that he has
no idea why the Landlords want to
shorten the dividing wall in the unit, which separates his bedroom area from the kitchen and living area by an existing door. With respect to the
floor plan that the Landlords’ submitted with the permit
application, he states that the floor plan is inaccurate and misrepresents the
unit.
 
28.    He testified that on June 13, 2020 the Landlord’s brother T.S. attended
outside the unit to
tell him and three other tenants together that their rent would be increased
and that they each had until the end of
June to confirm their
agreement. The Landlords wished to raise the rent for his unit by $200.00 per month, which J.A.
objected to paying.
 
29.    The Landlords delivered a signed N11 Agreement to End
the Tenancy to J.A., dated August 27, 2020 and asked J.A. to sign the form. The pretext for the N11 Agreement,
J.A. said, was based on
previous discussions with the Landlords about him vacating because of the water
leak. He felt that the Landlords were pressuring him to sign the agreement. When he would not sign it, they asked the Tenant how much money he would accept to move out.
 
30.    J.A. said that he declined to sign the N11 because he
found out that another tenant and his girlfriend were served with N12 Notices
the very same day. J.A. referred to copies of these Notices during his
testimony, each of which was signed by both Landlords. He noted that the tenant
who was paying the highest rent in the building was not served
with a termination notice.




 
31.   
Within three weeks, on September
23, 2020, he was served with the N13 Notice. He implied that he suspected that the Landlords’ motive was to evict the tenants so that they could re-rent the units at a higher
rent.
 
32.    J.A. testified that it was only two days after he
served and filed his responding submissions with the Board in June 2021 that the Landlords served
him with a copy of the contractor’s quote for the cost of
the planned renovations.
 
The Evidence
of J.K.
 
33.   
J.K. has resided in unit #2 since
2016. He pays $750.00 monthly for rent. He testified that he has always performed general maintenance around complex
and has communicated mostly with the Landlord A.S.. He knows the tenants in the building. He recalls that on or about June 15, 2020 the Landlords’ brother T.S. came to
the property to ask for a $300.00 increase
in his rent. J.K. asked T.S. to provide him with
the proper form for a rent increase.
 
34.   
T.S. returned to the premises at
the end of June to ask whether J.K. would agree to the increase. When J.K. declined,
he said, T.S. asked him how much of an increase he would
be willing to pay. J.K. did not feel this was proper.
 
35.    J.K. testified that he then received an N12 Notice
which informed him that the Landlord
A.S. was returning from Poland and would be moving into his unit. He testified that at one point,
on a date he could not recall
last year, a real
estate person put up
a for sale sign on the property.
 
The Evidence
of K.W.
 
36.   
K.W. resides in unit #3. She is the Tenant’s girlfriend. She pays $350.00
monthly for rent. She testified that T.S. told her in
June 2020 that he wanted
to talk to two other tenants at the same time, who were
the Tenant and J.K..
 
37.    They all met outside of residential building on June
13, 2020. T.S. told them that the rent needed
to be higher. He asked if she would
pay $200.00 more per month.
She witnessed him asking the
Tenant if he could pay $300.00 more and asking J.K. if he would agree to a $300.00 monthly increase.
 
38.   
T.S. gave them time to consider
the request. He returned to the building
on July 1, 2020
to collect the July rent and asked K.W. if she agreed
to the increase. K.W. told T.S. that
the Landlords were only allowed to increase the rent 2.2% per year. K.W.
testified that
T.S. told her he knew that. K.W. would not agree to the increase.
 
39.    K.W. was subsequently served with an N12 Notice
on August 27, 2020, which stated that the Landlord A.S.’s daughter
intended to move into her unit. However,
at a hearing on the L2 application only a few weeks before
this hearing, the daughter
informed the Board that she and her boyfriend had
bought a house together.




 
The Evidence
of E.S.
 
40.    E.S. testified that she is married to T.S.,
who is the brother of the Landlord
A.S., and that her father- the Tenant- lives in unit
#2. She currently resides with her
spouse and, contrary to the testimony of T.S., they have not separated.
 
41.    E.S. testified that her father J.A. described a visit
from T.S. on June 13, 2020 to her, in which T.S. asked J.A. pay $300.00 more in rent per month. J.A. told his daughter that he had
received two termination documents from the Landlords, and that two other
tenants, including her father’s girlfriend K.W., had received N12 Notices to move out. J.A. told her that A.S. wanted to move into K.W.’s
unit. She stated that her father
expressed his suspicions that the N12 was in bad faith
because he knew that A.S. would not move back to Canada form Poland.
 
42.   
On December 24, 2020 she, her
father and T.S. had Christmas dinner together. She testified that they had a heated
discussion about the proposed rent increases which she thought were unfair.
E.S. witnessed her spouse tell her father that since he would not agree to pay $300.00
more in rent “we are going to
take it the hard way”, and that
he and the Landlords were taking
other measures to get J.A. out. After that incident,
she stopped talking to her husband for some time.
 
Submissions of the Parties’
Representatives
 
43.   
The Landlord’s Legal Representative takes the position
that the application should be granted so
that the Landlords can perform the necessary repair to the Tenant’s unit, which
is fixing the ongoing water leak. Other parts of the unit are old and also need
repair, she said.
 
44.    The water leak issue was not addressed in the N13
Notice, she says, because it is included with the repairs being done to the exterior
of the rental unit as identified
in the contractor’s estimate. She
submits that the real issue is the water leaking and that the repairs need to
be completed as soon as possible.
 
45.    The Tenant will be allowed to move back into the unit,
she states, and the fact that the unit may be an illegal unit is not an issue.
She argued that there is no proof of any rent increase imposed upon any of the
tenants and, other than the oral testimony of the Tenant’s witnesses, there is no proof that any of the conversations occurred. In fact,
both the Landlords and T.S. testified that these conversations never
happened.
 
46.     The Tenant’s Legal Representative pointed to the
contradictory evidence of the Landlords about the repairs needed in the unit.
He submits that the N13 Notice and the approved permit are fundamentally
inconsistent, such that the permit does not actually approve any of
the repairs or renovations listed
in the N13 Notice. He also notes that the building permit has now expired.
He argues that because of the zoning, the practical result of the Landlord’s
repairs will be that the Tenant is effectively prevented from exercising his
right under the Act to reoccupy the unit when the repairs are done.




 
47.   
The Tenant’s position is that the Landlords have served the N13 Notice
and commenced the application
in bad faith, in retaliation because the Tenant declined to sign the N11
agreement or to pay for an unlawful rent increase.
 
48.    Even if the Board finds for the Landlords, he submits,
under subsection 83(3)(c) the tenancy cannot be terminated because
the Tenant is attempting
to secure or enforce his legal rights- the right to object to
an illegal rent increase without fear of eviction.
 
The Law
 
49.   
On an application before the
Board, the persons who seek an order terminating the tenancy have the burden of
leading sufficient evidence to establish that (i) the technical requirements of the Act have been met, and (ii) it is more likely than not that their version of events is true. In this case,
the burden falls on the Landlords.
 
50.   
The N13 Notice served
pursuant to subsection 50(1)(c) allows landlords to give a notice
of termination if the landlords require possession of the rental
unit in order to “do repairs
or renovations to it that are so extensive that they require a building permit
and
vacant possession of the rental
unit”.
 
51.    The section of the Act is clear that a landlord’s
application may not succeed if a building permit is not required
to do the repairs or renovations. Thus, the Board may not terminate
a tenancy where permits are unnecessary.
 
52.    In the event building permits are in fact required,
subsection 73(1)(b) of the Act states that the Board shall not terminate a tenancy unless
the landlord has obtained in advance
all necessary permits or other authority that may be required to carry out the
activity
on which the notice
of termination was based, or the landlord
has taken all reasonable
steps to obtain all necessary permits or other authority if it is not possible
to obtain the permits or
other authority until the rental unit is vacant.
 
53.    In making its determinations under section 50, the
Board must also consider the good faith intent of the applicants. Under
subsection 73(1)(a) of the Act, the Board cannot terminate a tenancy and evict the tenant “unless
it is satisfied that the landlord
intends in good faith to carry
out the activity on which the notice of termination is based”.
 
54.    Subsection 202(1) of the Act states:
In making findings on an
application, the Board shall ascertain the real substance of all transactions and activities relating
to a residential complex or a
rental unit and the good faith of the participants, and in doing so … may have
regard to the pattern of activities relating
to the residential complex or the rental unit.
 
55.    Building permits in Ontario are required specifically
for: plumbing; building or moving walls; installing new exterior
doors where there are none;
mechanical HVAC duct work;
and foundation repairs. Permits must be applied for and approved in order to
construct and use/rent secondary
or accessory dwellings
within a house,
in order to ensure these units comply with building and fire
safety codes.




 
Analysis
 
The N13 Notice
 
56.    The water leak in the Tenant’s unit has been present
and unaddressed since before the Tenant moved into the unit 6 years ago. The
Tenant had informed the Landlords about the leak. The Landlord A.S. said he knew of the leak even before the Tenant moved in.
 
57.   
The N13 Notice was signed by the Landlord’s Legal Representative and served on September 23, 2020 on behalf of the Landlords A.S. and B.K..
No detailed renovation plan, time estimates or quotes were provided with the Notice
or within a reasonable time following service of the
Notice.
 
58.    The Notice informs the Tenant that the work planned
will be a “complete renovation of the entire rental
unit”. Additionally, the Landlords may have to make
other repairs that are identified during the renovation process.
 
59.    The Landlord A.S., who has significant construction experience, disagrees with the
Landlord B.K. that the renovations listed in the N13 Notice are necessary. The only work required, he says, is to find
and repair the water leak in the foundation. Repair of the water leak is not
specifically listed in the N13 Notice.
 
The Permit
 
60.    The permit submitted by the Landlords is entitled
“Basement Alterations”. The notations made by the zoning official
who approved the permit do not match the
renovation items listed on the N13 Notice.
 
61.   
The approved floor plan (which
accompanied the permit application and was submitted by the Landlords) shows
alterations to one interior wall, the possible addition and removal of one or two doors, as well as the installation of a bathroom fan, a smoke detector and a
carbon dioxide detector. There is a vague notation about adding insulation to a
portion of one exterior wall.
 
62.    On the approved plan, the “living area” is changed to
a “rec room”. No bedroom or sleeping area has been identified. The parties agree that the wall between
the living area and kitchen/living area will be
shortened.
 
63.    There is nothing
noted in the approved permit
relating to the following repairs
or renovations: (i) the building foundation, (ii) removing and replacing
all electrical wires, (iii), major plumbing, or (iv) removing and replacing all
duct work, all of which would likely require permits.
 
64.   
The Landlords did not submit a
copy of the permit application. No
estimates of costs were identified in the N13 Notice, nor, and there
is no evidence of a detailed
renovation plan with a timeline.




 
65.   
The approved permit clearly states
that the basement is *not to be used as a second dwelling unit*. The Landlords have not submitted proof that an accessory
dwelling permit has been applied for or approved, which would rectify the
illegal apartment status. Additionally, the approved permit has now expired,
having terminated after 6 months on May 24, 2021.
 
The Contractors’ Estimate
 
66.    Approximately 9 months after serving the N13 Notice,
on June 18, 2021 the Landlords received a quote from Bax-Pol LED Lights Inc., estimating the cost of renovations. B.K. arranged for the
quote on or about May 2021.
 
67.   
The quote does not include the
following items listed on the N13 Notice: (i) ductwork, (ii) electrical work,
or (iii) plumbing. The quote includes removing and replacing a deck and
removing kitchen cabinets and for adding insulation (in an undefined area) -
none of which are listed in the N13 Notice. The significant portion of the estimate
focuses on finding
and repairing the water leak, which was excluded from the N13 Notice.
 
68.   
The only items listed
in the N13 Notice for which the contractor provided
an estimate are removing
and replacing the drywall (in an undefined area) and removing
the flooring.
 
69.    According to the website of Bax-Pol LED Lights Inc.,
the company manufactures and distributes energy efficient lighting products.
There is no information on the website indicating that the company offers
construction or renovation services to private
homeowners. The company
has a business address at 101 Charing
Drive, Hamilton, which is the address listed on the quote.
 
Application of the Law
 
70.   
For the reasons that follow, the Board finds that the Landlords have failed to meet the required burden of proof,
and therefore the Landlords’ application must be dismissed.
 
Are the proposed renovations extensive, such that vacant possession of the rental unit is required?
 
71.    The renovations listed in the N13 Notice are
extensive. Removing drywall, plumbing, electrical wires and duct work and
replacing these require substantial work and would reasonably take more than a
few days to complete. The disruption to the Tenant would be significant. The supply of vital services,
such as water and heat, would be interrupted
during this period. If the work set out in the N13 is accomplished, the
Landlords would necessarily require vacant possession of the unit.
 
Have the Landlords obtained
the necessary permits?
 
72.   
I
find that the Landlords have failed to obtain, or to take all reasonable steps to obtain,
the proper permits in respect of the N13 Notice prior to the hearing.




 
73.   
The only authority the Landlords
have obtained to date is an expired permit for “alterations” to an
interior and possibly an exterior
wall, possibly to one or two doors,
and adding minor items which do not require a permit. There are no other
notations or directions, particularly about major items,
made by the zoning
official, who was assigned to
ensure that the renovations comply with the Building Code and Zoning-By-Law.
 
74.    None of these alterations are listed in the N13
Notice. No evidence was led by the Landlords
to establish that the Landlords
have taken all reasonable steps to date to either renew the expired permit or obtain
the necessary permits to conform with the Notice.
 
75.   
The approved permit clearly
states that once the
work is completed the unit is “*not to be used as a
second dwelling unit*”. It is reasonable to conclude that the Landlords will be
prohibited from allowing the Tenant to resume occupancy, as he would be
entitled to do under subsection 50(3) of the Act on the basis that the unit
will be non-compliant with zoning restrictions. Neither of the Landlords
addressed this in their oral testimony.
 
76.    On the basis
of the above, I am not satisfied on the balance
of probabilities that the
Landlords have complied with section 73 of the Act and obtained the appropriate
permit(s) accordant with the N13 Notice. As a result, the Board does not have
the authority to terminate the tenancy.
 
77.   
For those “alterations” approved
in the building permit, with the exception of the modifications to the interior
wall (not included
in the N13 Notice), the Landlords would not
require a permit. The Board would be unable terminate the tenancy on that
basis, either.
 
78.   
Regarding the insulation of the
exterior wall noted on the approved permit,
no details were provided
as to the nature or scope of the work, including whether
the Landlords required vacant
possession of the unit to do the work. The evidence is insufficient to make a
finding.
 
Do the Landlords intend in good faith to complete the work set out in the N13
Notice?
 
79.    Even if the Board had the authority
to grant the application under
sections 50 and 73 of the Act, I would dismiss the
application on the grounds of bad faith conduct.
 
80.    It is readily
apparent that the two Landlords disagree about the renovation plan. B.K., who has not described herself as
experienced in this area, proposes to renovate the unit in accordance with the
N13 Notice. The evidence of A.S., an experienced contractor, fundamentally contradicts B.K.’s testimony. He testified that no renovations are needed to the interior of the Tenant’s unit-
everything “is good”, including the wiring, ducts and plumbing. The only repair
that needs to be completed is to find and fix the ongoing water leak located in
the foundation of the building.
 
81.    Neither Landlord was able to reasonably explain
or justify the contradictions. These inconsistencies, in my view, signify
a lack of good faith intent.
 
82.    The Landlord B.K. is disingenuous when she states
that the water leak repairs
are included in the “other unknown repairs that might become
apparent during the




 
renovations” in the N13 Notice. [emphasis
added] She, A.S. and the Tenant each testified
that they have known about the
leak in the foundation and the need to
repair it during this period.
 
83.    The failure to pursue and obtain the proper permits demonstrates that the
Landlords are not expressing a good faith commitment to complete the repairs listed
in the N13 Notice, or even
to repairing the water leak. It is concerning that, for at least 6 years, the
Landlords have failed to comply with their obligations to repair the leak
pursuant to subsection 20(1) of the Act.
 
84.    Based on the evidence before me, I am satisfied that
within 2 months of failing to obtain agreements to rent increases from the tenants,
the Landlords commenced the process to terminate all three tenancies.
 
85.   
The evidence presented by the
Tenant, J.K., K.W. and E.S. regarding the rent increase incidents was consistent, credible
and forthright. I prefer the testimony of E.S. over that of T.S., and find that an animated
dispute between E.S., T.S. and J.A. about increasing J.A.’s rent did occur on
December 24, 2020. I find that T.S. told E.S. and J.A. that the Landlords were
taking “other measures” to evict the Tenant.
 
86.   
I am persuaded on the whole of the
evidence that the Landlords attempted to unlawfully increase the Tenant’s rent in June 2020, and that this failed attempt
prompted the service of an N11 Notice and an N13 Notice
on the Tenant.
 
87.   
It is not unreasonable to conclude
that when the Landlords could not obtain an agreement to a rent increase from the Tenant,
they turned their minds to finding a way to evict the Tenant in accordance with the
Act.
 
88.    It seems apparent
to me that the Landlords determined that the existence of the water leak offered them the opportunity to
seek an order terminating this tenancy.
B.K. then cobbled together a plan to renovate the unit so as to ensure that the
Landlords would gain vacant possession and, without much forethought or
preparation, filed the application to terminate the tenancy. Unfortunately, the
plan was seriously flawed.
 
89.    I do not doubt that the Landlords
are truthful about
their intention to repair the water leak if they continue to own the building.
However, the issue before me is whether the Landlords have satisfied the
requirements of the Act with respect to the N13 Notice and application such
that a termination of the tenancy may be granted.
 
90.    I find that it is more likely than not the Landlords
intend to evict the Tenant
for reasons unrelated to the
N13 Notice and application, and in doing so are acting in bad faith.
 
91.    This order contains
all of the reasons for my decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.       
The Landlords’ application is dismissed.




 
2.       
On or before February
28, 2022, the Tenant shall pay to the Landlords
$2,100.00, which is the amount
the Landlords paid in compensation to the Tenant or, if the Landlords’ cheque
dated January 19, 2021 was not cashed, the Tenant shall return the cheque to
the Landlords on or before that date.
 
 




January 21, 2022


  Elle Venhola          




Date Issued                                                                      Elle Venhola
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West, 6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

