Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-18
File number:	
SOL-19006-21

Citation:	Dosenovic v Jeffrey, 2022 CanLII 70616 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jr930>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-19006-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


2ND FLOOR,
218 BALMORAL AVENUE
S HAMILTON ON L8M3K7


 




Between:


David Dosenovic


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Saulmon Jeffrey


Tenant



 
David Dosenovic (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy
and evict Saulmon Jeffrey (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential
complex has wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the premises.
The Landlord has also applied
for an order requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlord for the damage. The Landlord
also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after
the termination date.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on December 15, 2021.
The Landlord and the Tenant attended the hearing.
Also in attendance was the Landlord’s witness and son, Milan Dosenovic.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
By way of background, the
residential complex is a two-storey building consisting of a basement unit, a main floor unit and an upstairs unit. The Tenant’s
unit is a one-bedroom unit
with a kitchen, living room and bathroom. The Tenant occupies the upstairs
unit.
 
2.     The Tenant is in possession of the rental
unit. The lawful
monthly rent is
$578.00.
 
3.    
The Landlord’s L2 application is based on a N5 notice of termination served
to the Tenant on December 13,
2020 with a termination date of January 3, 2021 pursuant to subsection 62(1) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') which states:
 
A
landlord may give a tenant notice of termination of the tenancy if the tenant,
another occupant of the rental
unit or a person whom the tenant
permits in the
residential complex wilfully or negligently causes undue damage to
the rental unit or the residential complex.
 
[Emphasis added.]




 
4.    
The notice of termination alleges
that the exterior door to the rental unit was damaged because of the Tenant forcing entry to the unit after being locked out; when the Tenant attempted to fix the damage he
caused, he drilled additional holes in the door which is now in an irreparable
state.
 
5.    
As this was a first N5 notice of
termination, the Tenant had the opportunity to void the notice by paying the
Landlord $1,038.42 or repairing the damaged door. The Landlord testified that the
Tenant did not do either,
resulting in their filing of the L2 application on January 5, 2021.
 
Landlord’s Evidence
 
6.     The Landlord’s witness, Milan Dosenovic, who performs
minor repairs at the residential complex, testified that his father informed
him of the damage to the unit door when he went to pick up the rent check for December
2020; MD texted the Tenant, inquiring about the damage. The Tenant told him he would get it fixed
himself. MD also testified that the Tenant’s
aunt, who resided
on the main floor, told him that the damage
occurred because of the Tenant
being locked out of his rental unit.
 
7.     MD testified that the Tenant
ended up changing
the locking mechanism on the door by installing a metal plate and a different handle,
which resulted in damage to the door as
additional holes were drilled. However, even after the Tenant’s temporary fix,
the hole inside the door frame was visible while being closed and locked.
 
8.     Photographs of this damage was submitted into evidence
by the Landlord that show the metal plate, different handles on the doors
compared to the main floor door and the hole on the side. The Landlord obtained
a few quotes and chose the most conservative one to
include in their claim under the L2 application and notice of termination.
 
9.     MD testified that he had a text message exchange
with the Tenant
who said he had fixed it but did not provide the keys to
the Landlord for the new lock – a separate issue that is not part of this
application.
 
10.  The Landlord seeks a termination of the tenancy as
well as reimbursement of the estimate to replace
the door and lock. The Landlord also seeks reimbursement of the application
filing fee.
 
Tenant’s Evidence
 
11.  The Tenant accepted
that he had to break into his apartment as he had been locked
out. This resulted in a crack under the
handle but denies changing the locks, the door handle
and drilling holes into the
door. The Tenant testified that he added
a plate to address the damage that he could not fix, in order
to secure the door handle.
 
12.  The Tenant testified
that he lived in the rental
unit since 2013 and is a sole
occupant of his unit. He does not feel that he should be evicted from his home due
to this issue and seeks that the application be dismissed. In the alternative, the Tenant is agreeable
to a




 
conditional order requiring him to
refrain from causing
further damage to the door of his
unit.
 
13.  The Tenant does not agree with the quantum of damages claimed
by the Landlord and believes
it can be fixed at a lower cost. No quotes were presented by the Tenant to
further support this assertion.
 
ANALYSIS
 
14.  Part of the Landlord’s L2 application included
a section 89(1) damage claim for the cost
to replace the door and lock. This section of the Act states:
 
A landlord
may apply to the Board
for an order requiring a tenant to pay
reasonable costs that the landlord has incurred or will incur for the
repair of or, where repairing is not reasonable, the replacement of damaged
property, if the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person
whom the tenant permits in the residential complex wilfully or
negligently causes undue damage to the rental unit or the residential complex and the tenant is in
possession of the rental unit.
 
[Emphasis added.]
 
15.  In order for an application to succeed under subsection 89(1) of the Act,
a landlord must establish the following:
 
I.       
There was property damage
to the rental unit or residential complex;
II.       
The damage is “undue”
meaning that it is not normal wear and tear and it is not insignificant; and
III.       
The damage was a result of wilful or negligent conduct.
 
16.  In this context,
I take the word “property” to refer to the physical
objects like the walls,
ceilings, floors, appliances and fixtures in a residential complex.
 
17.  If all of these factors
are met, then the amount the Board can award is limited
to the reasonable cost of repair
– the replacement cost cannot be awarded
unless it is not
reasonable for the damage to be repaired.
 
18.  Based on the evidence before
the Board, I find that the entrance
door to the Tenant’s unit was
damaged due to the Tenant’s willful and/or negligent conduct
– as admitted to by the Tenant of breaking into the unit from
being locked out. I also find that the damage constitutes property damage to
the rental unit.
 
19.  In examining the photographs that were submitted to
the Board, I do not find that the damage to the door can be repaired. I say
this because it appears the wood has been structurally damaged in the area of
the third lock close to the bottom of the door. With respect to the amount
claimed by the Landlord of $1,038.42, I find this estimate to be reasonable given the materials
required and the Tenant to be responsible for this cost. A payment plan shall be ordered for
repayment of this amount in full.




 
20.  The next issue
before the Board is
with respect to relief from eviction.
 
21.  Conditional relief is appropriate where
tenants acknowledge the behaviour and are willing to take steps to change that
behaviour, so the same problems do not re-occur in the future. The evidence
here supports that conclusion with this Tenant – the Tenant took responsibility
and attempted to fix the damage to rectify the issue. The evidence before the
Board suggests the Tenant is willing or able to do what is necessary to
preserve his tenancy.
 
22.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief
from eviction subject to the
condition(s) set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1)
of the Act. I say this primarily because this is a single, isolated incident
and not a repeating pattern of behaviour.
 
23.  An order shall issue accordingly.
 
24.  This order contains
all of the reasons for the decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     For the duration
of the next twelve months,
the Tenant shall refrain from causing damage to any door at the rental unit.
 
2.     The Tenant shall pay to the Landlord
$1,038.42, which represents the reasonable costs of replacing the damaged property as
follows:
 
a)  $150.00 on or before February
20, 2022;
 
b)  $150.00 on or before March 20, 2022;
 
c)  $150.00 on or before April
20, 2022;
 
d)  $150.00 on or before May 20, 2022;
 
e)  $150.00 on or before June 20, 2022;
 
f)  $150.00 on or before July 20, 2022;
and
 
g)  $138.42 on or before August 20, 2022;
 
3.     If
the Tenant fails to comply with paragraphs 1 or 2 this order, the Landlord may,
without notice to the Tenant and within 30 days of the breach, apply to the
Board pursuant to section
78 of the Act for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting
the Tenant.
 
4.     The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing the application.




 
5.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before January
29, 2022, the Tenant will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from January 30, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.












January 18, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Sonia Anwar-Ali
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

