Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-09
File number:	
SOL-22454-21

Citation:	Executive Property Management v Gil, 2022 CanLII 94711 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsd1m>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-22454-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


1, 83 KENILWORTH AVENUE
S HAMILTON ON L8K2T1


 




Between:


Executive Property Management


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Monica Gil


Tenant



 
 
Executive Property Management (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
Monica Gil (the 'Tenant') because the Landlord intends to demolish the rental
unit.
 
This application was heard by
videoconference on September 29, 2021.
 
The Landlord’s legal
representative Curtis Begg and the Tenant attended the hearing. The Landlord’s witness
and property manager
Kaleb Antonides also attended
and gave testimony.
 
Reasons:
 
1.     In this case, the Landlord’s N13 Notice of Termination
was given to the Tenant by mail on
May 20, 2021.
 
2.     The N13 itself
asserts that the Landlord intends
to demolish the rental unit.
 
3.     The planned work consists of lowering the basement
floor and “deconverting” the residential complex from four
to two dwelling units to comply with an Order to Comply issued by the City of Hamilton.
 
4.    
These reasons explain why the Landlord’s application must be
dismissed.
 
Preliminary Issue
– N13 Notice of Termination
 
5.    
The Landlord’s N13 Notice
of Termination names
only one tenant,
the Tenant. However, the Tenant argued that there is a problem with the N13 in that it does not
name and was not given to all of the tenant parties to the tenancy
agreement.
 
6.     The tenant parties to the initial joint tenancy
agreement are the Tenant and Madeline Ruud. However, there was some effort to
replace Ms. Ruud with Mr. Damion Cook. An amended tenancy agreement was prepared that would remove Ms. Ruud and replace
her with Mr. Cook.




 
7.    
In a contract with multiple
parties, all parties must agree to an amendment before that amendment takes
effect. In this case, Ms. Ruud did not sign the amended agreement. As a result, the tenancy agreement was not amended
and the result is that the tenant parties to the agreement remain Ms. Gil
and Ms. Ruud. The Landlord’s agent, Ms. Denise Saulnier confirmed this to be
the Landlord’s understanding in a November 30, 2020 e- mail to the Tenant and
Mr. Cook.
 
8.    
This raises the questions of whether the N13 is valid
and whether it was properly
given to all of the requisite
tenants. On this issue, Mr. Begg argued that the Landlord was not required to
name Ms. Ruud as a tenant on the N13 or serve Ms. Ruud with a copy of the N13
because Ms. Ruud was not in possession of the rental unit.
 
9.    
Board Interpretation Guideline 10,
Procedural Issues Regarding Eviction Applications, states, in part, that
the Board will not terminate a
tenancy and order eviction of the tenant unless the tenant has received a valid
notice of termination from the landlord. If the document given to the tenant or
the method or time of service are defective, in most cases this will result
in dismissal of the application. With respect to service of the notice of
termination, where there are multiple tenants, Guideline 10 states:
 
If the landlord has entered
into a tenancy agreement with more than one tenant, the Notice of Termination should name and be given to all tenants. This may be done in one Notice naming all the tenants.
Although a Notice to a tenant may be served by giving it to any apparently
adult person in the unit, if one of the tenants lives at another address, they
must be served separately in accordance with the RTA and Rules of Practice.
 
It is notable that Guideline 10
expressly contemplates the situation where one of several tenants is not in
possession of the rental unit because they live elsewhere. In such a case, Guideline 10 directs that notices of termination should
still be given to a tenant who lives elsewhere. Although Guideline
10 is not binding, my view is that the above-quoted text is the correct
interpretation of the law for the following reasons.
 
10.  The Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’)
provides mandatory requirements for notices of termination. Section 43 of the
Act, which applies to all notices of termination, does not expressly state
who should be named on the
notice of termination. However, as
subsection 43(2) of the Act requires the landlord giving such a notice and to
set out the reasons and details
respecting the termination and inform the tenant receiving the notice of
certain information, it is implied that the landlord giving the notice of
termination must name the tenant of the rental unit. Where there is more than
one tenant, the notice of termination must name all of the tenants of the
rental unit.
 
11.  For N13 notices of termination, subsection 50(1)
authorizes the landlord to give notice, subsection 50(2) requires the date for
termination specified in the notice to be at least 120 days after the notice is
given and to be the day a period of the tenancy ends or, where the tenancy is for a fixed term, the
end of the term, and subsection 50(4) of the Act
provides early termination rights to a tenant who receives
such a notice. Read together,
it is clear that the landlord is required to give a copy of the notice
to each of the tenants of the rental unit.




 
12.  The Landlord was required to give the N13 notice of
termination to all tenants of the rental unit. Since it was uncontested that the Landlord
only gave the notice of termination
to Ms. Gil but not Ms. Ruud, or even Mr. Cook, it follows that service of the
notice of termination was defective. This means that the Board does not have
jurisdiction to terminate the tenancy and that I must dismiss the Landlord’s
application.
 
Alternatively
 
13.  Even if I am wrong in reaching this conclusion, I must
still dismiss the Landlord’s application because the Landlord’s proposed
work does not constitute a demolition.
 
Evidence
 
14.  In the present
case, the following
facts were not in dispute.
 
15.  The Tenant resides
on the main floor of the residential complex in “Unit 1”. Although the residential complex is
permitted to have 2-units, when the Tenant first viewed the residential complex
there were 3-units:
the unit she currently occupies
on the main floor, a
second-floor unit and a third-floor loft. No one occupied the basement.
 
16.  By the time of the hearing, there were two sets of
tenants living in the rental unit: the Tenant
on the main floor and a new tenant in a new unit that combined the second floor and third floor loft into one unit.
The basement remained unoccupied.
 
17.  The Landlord intention was to create a fourth unit in
the basement, but this intention was frustrated when the landlord
received an Order
to Comply from the City of
Hamilton dated January 5,
2021. This Order finds that the Landlord commenced construction at the
residential complex without the required permit and requires the Landlord to
obtain the necessary permit.
 
18.  The Landlord applied to the City of Hamilton for a
permit to construct or demolish on March 21, 2021. The application is not for demolition but for an alteration or repair. The description of the proposed work is to
“lower the basement floor and deconvert from 4 dwelling units to two dwelling
units”. The permit application includes a document prepared by King Homes Inc. entitled “De-conversion Permit” to the permit application. No one from
King Homes Inc. attended the hearing to provide evidence respecting this document.
 
19.  The City of Hamilton issued a building permit to the
Landlord on April 13, 2021, for the following work: “To deconvert the illegal 4
family dwelling to a 2 family dwelling. Construction shall include new stair
from second floor to attic as well as complete basement underpinning.” There
are no proposed changes to the envelope of the residential complex and the
document prepared by King Homes Inc. confirms that the Landlord proposes no
changes to the floor plan of the Tenant’s unit. According to this document, the
illegal basement unit was composed of a kitchen/dining/living room, a master
bedroom, laundry and a bathroom. Under the Landlord’s proposal, the
kitchen/dining/living room area of the basement will become a rec room and the kitchen appliances will be removed.




 
20.  Mr. Atonides introduced the permit application as well as the document
prepared by King Homes Inc. He explained that the
permit envisions adding depth to the basement, combining the second-floor and
third-floor units into a single unit and combining the basement and the
Tenant’s main-floor unit into a single basement/main-floor unit. Mr. Antonides
testified that the basement is currently uninhabitable but that once the work
is completed the basement will be habitable and the combined square footage of
the new basement/main-floor unit will be greater than the square footage of the
Tenant’s unit.
 
21.  On cross-examination,
Mr. Antonides testified that when the Tenant moved
in there were 4 separate hydro
meters, that the basement unit was empty and unlivable
and that it was
the Landlord’s hope that a new tenant would move into the basement. Mr.
Antonides agreed with the Tenant that the basement remained unlivable, and
described the basement as unlivable because not all of the appliances and fixtures are ready to go.
Mr. Antonides also admitted
that page 13 of the Landlord’s book of documents
notes that the basement dwelling unit will be
converted to storage space. Mr. Antonides denied any knowledge of whether the
Landlord’s intention was to convert the residential complex back to a 4-unit
building and denied
any knowledge of whether the Landlord’s permit had
an expiry date of October 1, 2021.
 
22.  The Tenant testified
that she viewed
the unit prior to moving
in and moved into the unit
on August 1, 2020. She testified that upon viewing she asked about the
basement, which was completely unfinished in that there were concrete floors
and no drywall. The Tenant testified that she was told that the basement was
going to be a separate apartment and that someone new would move in. She
testified that after moving into the unit the Landlord commenced construction
of a basement unit and that this construction
continued until the Landlord was ordered to stop. The Tenant’s belief
was that the Landlord wanted to construct 4-units illegally, that the Landlord
was caught and had to stop and that the purpose of the Landlord’s application
was to evict the Tenant and re- rent the combined unit for a greater amount.
 
23.  In support of her testimony the Tenant introduced an
Order to Comply issued by the City of Hamilton on September 27, 2021 based on
an inspection of the same date as well as an e-mail written by Mr. Bill
Brouwer, a Building Inspector and Plans Examiner for the City of Hamilton. Ms. Brouwer’s e-mail details his observations
from his September 27, 2021 inspection. In particular, Mr. Brouwer notes that
there have been no inspections of the residential complex since the April 13,
2021 permit was issued, that the Landlord has been non-responsive to the City’s
attempts at contact, that the Landlord’s work in the basement was not in
compliance with approved stamped permit plans (e.g. the approved stamped permit
plans depict a foyer closet and adjacent to the closet, in apartment laundry facilities; the proposed laundry
facility wall was to be a fire resistive rated wall; the laundry facilities were housed within
the proposed foyer closet; the door to the basement was still in place and
unrated) and that the Landlord has substantially completed the basement
apartment prior to city inspection and approval.
 
24.  The September 27, 2021
Order to Comply indicates that the Landlord
has concealed the following elements of construction:
underpinning; backfill, dampproof, stone; structural framing; building drains;
insulation and vapor barrier; fire separation; engineering certifications. The
Oder to Comply requires the Landlord to expose the aforementioned




 
elements of the residential complex to facilitate an inspection and to cease any further construction until the
aforementioned stages of construction have been inspected.
 
Analysis
 
25.  As I understood the Tenant’s submissions, the Tenant introduced the stop order and the communications from Mr. Brouer to
support the argument that the Landlord does not in good faith intend to carry
out the activity on which the N13 was based, which is a requirement of
paragraph 73(1)(a) of the Act. I do not accept this argument. If the work
proposed by the Landlord is properly characterized as a demolition, the
Landlord’s decision to proceed and to do the work without stopping for the
necessary inspections tells me that the Landlord is keen to carry out the work.
In other words, the fact that the Landlord is actually doing the work supports
rather than undermines a finding that the Landlord in good faith intends to
carry out the activity on which the N13 was based.
 
26.  I also do not accept that the Landlord has not
obtained the necessary permits, which is a requirement of paragraph 73(1)(b) of the Act. The
Tenant did not provide any evidence to support her assertion that the Landlord’s
permit was expiring. Although the Landlord’s decision to proceed with the work
without stopping for the necessary inspections caused the City to issue a stop order, there was no evidence that the stop order itself
affected the validity of the
already issued permit.
 
27.  Nevertheless, having considered the real substance of
all transactions and activities related to the residential complex
and the rental
unit as I am required to do by subsection
202(1) of the Act, my conclusion is that the work proposed by the Landlord does
not constitute a demolition within the meaning of paragraph 50(1)(a)
of the Act, which states:
 
50 (1) A landlord
may give notice of termination of a tenancy
if the landlord requires
possession of the rental unit in order to, (a) demolish it [.]
 
28.  When interpreting the meaning of the word “demolish”, I am required
to apply the modern
principal of statutory interpretation, which is that the words of the Act are
to be read in their entire context and in their grammatical and ordinary sense
harmoniously with the scheme of the Act, the object of the Act, and the
intention of the Legislature. I am also required to apply any binding legal
precedents.
 
29.  Beginning with the grammatical and ordinary sense of
the word “demolish”, this word is variously defined as “pull down, completely destroy
or break” and “destroy, pull down, or do away with something”: Ma v Sedor,
2021 CanLII 139751 (ON LTB) at para. 13; TEL- 63893-15 (Re), 2016 CanLII 38366 (ON LTB) at para. 11. The grammatical and ordinary sense of the word “demolish” suggests
that the proposed
work should be something akin to the irrevocable destruction of the
rental unit in question.
 
30.  However, as explained by the Divisional Court, the
context in which the Legislature used the word “demolish” makes clear that the
destruction or even a significant change to the rental unit is not enough. In Two
Clarendon Apartments Limited v. Sinclair, 2019 ONSC 3845 (CanLII), the
issue was whether the work proposed by the landlord constituted a renovation or a demolition for the purposes
of subsection 50(1) of the Act. The Board had




 
found that there was a renovation because the unit would be available
in the same floor space,
albeit reconfigured and extensively rebuilt. The Court upheld the following
interpretation of the word “demolish” as reasonable and consistent with the Act
and modern principles of statutory interpretation:
 
13.  
In a situation where the rental
unit continues to exist, albeit in an extremely altered form, it is possible
for the tenant to exercise a right of first refusal, because the rental unit is
still there: the tenant may move back and continue the tenancy. In a situation where the rental
unit is gone, it is not
possible for the tenant to exercise a right
of first refusal:
the rental unit is no longer there and so the tenant
cannot move back. The fact that the Act distinguishes
renovations and demolitions by the
tenant’s right of first refusal shows
that the intention of these sections
of the Act is to preserve tenancies where it is
possible to do so.
 
14.    
Accordingly, a project will be
defined as a renovation under the Act in a case where it is possible for the
tenant to move back into the unit and a project will be defined as a demolition where it is not possible
for the tenant to move back
into the unit.
 
The Divisional Court in Two
Clarendon Apartments Limited also found that the Board’s decision was
consistent with the result in Corbett v. Lanterra Developments, 2014
ONSC 3297 (CanLII) (Div. Ct.), at para. 14, where there was a demolition
permit, and the construction resulted in different units
from those demolished, so that the tenant could
not move back into the rental unit.
 
31.  In the present
case, the real substance of the work proposed by the Landlord
is not a demolition for several reasons.
 
32.  First, the Landlord does not propose any work that can
reasonably be described as irrevocably destroying or even significantly changing the Tenant’s
rental unit. The building
permit as well as the testimony of the Landlord’s witness confirm that while
significant work is being done in the unoccupied basement there are no proposed
changes to the floorplan of the Tenant’s unit. That the work itself is
insignificant as it pertains to the Tenant’s unit is demonstrated by the fact
that it has not been necessary for
the Tenant to vacate the rental unit while the Landlord brought the work in the
basement to substantial completion (albeit without the necessary inspections).
 
33.  Second, even if the Landlord was proposing to destroy
or significantly change the Tenant’s unit, and even if the project required the
Tenant to vacate the rental unit, there would
be no impediment to the Tenant moving back into the unit and exercising a right of first refusal. The basement has been
unoccupied at all material times and there is therefore no tenant in the
basement who would be competing with the Tenant for the exercise of this right.
 
34.  Third, in his questioning of the Tenant,
the Landlord’s legal
representative had the Tenant
admit that she does not pay rent for floor space in the basement. I understood
the purpose of eliciting this admission as making the point that the Tenant
would obtain a windfall if she were permitted to remain in her unit paying the
same rent while receiving




 
the benefit of the increased floor space once the Tenant’s
unit is connected to the basement.
 
35.  The problem I have with this argument
is that the Act expressly
provides a mechanism
for dealing with situations where a landlord wants to add floor space or
storage space to an existing unit. I am referring to subsection 123(1) of the
Act and subsection 16(1) of O. Reg. 516/06, which together provide that a
landlord may increase the rent charged to a tenant at any time if the landlord
and the tenant agree to the addition of storage space or floor space. That the
Act requires such additions to be based on consent suggests that a landlord
cannot unilaterally impose such a
change on a tenant. This is in my view the real substance
of what the Landlord is attempting to do. The fact that the Tenant has not
consented to the addition of
storage space or floor space does not change the Landlord’s project into a demolition. If
it did, landlords could evict their tenants by proposing relatively minor work such as enclosing a porch and
characterizing the result as a new unit because it is bigger than the original
unit. This would in my view strike an unfair balance between the rights of
residential landlords and tenants and defeat the Legislature’s intention to
preserve tenancies where it is possible to do so.
 
36.  The Landlord sought to rely on the following decisions
of the Board to support the argument that the Landlord’s proposed
work constitutes a demolition of the Tenant’s
unit: TSL-51257-14-RV (Re), 2015 CanLII 22344 (ON LTB) and TSL-04700-19
(Re), 2019
CanLII 134413 (ON LTB). I did not find these cases persuasive for the following reasons.
 
37.  In TSL-51257-14-RV (Re), 2015 CanLII 22344 (ON
LTB), the residential complex was a high-rise building with a former hotel on
the lower floors and a number of occupied and vacant rental residential units
on the upper floors. The project undertaken by the landlord involved a 9-story
addition to the top of the exiting tower effectively increasing the height of
the residential complex from 32 to 41 storeys and adding to the base an
8-storey podium building with wings. One of the wings would include a
purpose-built building which would
house 78 residential rental units. The scope of the work involved demolition of demising
walls on each of the existing floors
and the construction of the super
structure that would support the additional floors. The Board found that
the work was in the nature of a demolition because the project would
effectively cause the rental unit to disappear and change irrevocably.
 
38.  Apart from the fact that the Vice Chair did not have
the benefit of the Divisional Court’s subsequent decision in Two Clarendon
Apartments Limited v. Sinclair, and so did not expressly consider whether
the tenant in question could exercise a right of first refusal, the facts of the case are clearly distinguishable. The landlord in that case had obtained
a demolition permit, which is not the case here. The proposed work clearly
required the tenant in question to vacate the rental unit, which is not the
case here. The scope of the project would effectively cause the unit in
question to disappear, which is not the case here. As noted above, there are no
material changes planned for the Tenant’s unit, including no changes to the
Tenant’s floor plan, and even if the work proposed by the Landlord required the
Tenant to vacate the rental unit there is no impediment to her exercise of the
right of first refusal.




 
39.  In TSL-04700-19 (Re), 2019 CanLII 134413 (ON
LTB), the landlord purchased the residential complex in 2018 with the intent to
maintain its use as a rooming house after performing significant work to the building.
There were 24 rental units
over four levels
and three floors. To obtain the building permits the landlord was
required to provide an undertaking that the property would be returned to the
original state of 21 living units, as three of the 24 units were unlawfully added at some point by previous owners. The unit in question was 102, a
ground floor unit which had
been illegally carved out of unit 101.
The landlord proposed to combine units 101 and 102 into a larger unit. The work
consisted of removing the front door to unit 102 by walling it in, removing the
demising walls between the two units, shifting internal walls, removing the
kitchenette and installing an ensuite. The Board found
that the proposed
work was a demolition “because
the work proposed
is a substantial alternation that will result in the rental unit ceasing
to exist after the work is completed. It will be impossible for the current
tenants of the affected units to “walk: back into their units as they will be
gone.”
 
40.  The facts of this case are also distinguishable. In TSL-04700-19
(Re), substantial alterations were proposed to unit 102. In the present
case, there are no substantial alterations proposed to the Tenant’s unit and
the floor plan will remain the same. In that case, the reason it was impossible
for the tenant in question to exercise a right of first refusal was because the
Landlord’s proposed combination of units 101 and 102 affected multiple tenants.
In other words, it was practically impossible for the tenants of units 101 and
102 to simultaneously exercise a right of first refusal for the new unit. In
the present case, the basement is unoccupied and even if the work proposed by
the Landlord required the Tenant
to vacate the rental unit there is no impediment to the her exercise of the right of first refusal.
 
41.  The real substance of the Landlord’s proposed work as it pertains
to the Tenant’s unit is expanding its floor space by connecting
it to the renovated basement. This is not a demolition and the Landlord’s
application must be dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
 




February 9, 2022 Date Issued
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7



 
Douglas Wilkins
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board




 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

