Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-08
File number:	
SOL-20557-21

Citation:	Spallacci Contracting Ltd. v Hohberger, 2022 CanLII 94588 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsd1j>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-20557-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


305, 260
KING STREET E HAMILTON ON L8N1B7


 




Between:


Spallacci Contracting Ltd.


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Akayla Hohberger


Tenant



 
 
 
 
Spallacci Contracting Ltd. (the
'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Akayla
Hohberger (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment or lawful
right, privilege or interest of the Landlords
or another tenant.
The Landlord has also applied for an order requiring the Tenant to
compensate the Landlord for the damage. The Landlord also claimed compensation
for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by video
conference on August 11, 2021, and January
27, 2022.
 
The Landlord’s agent, G. Atanasiu, the Landlord’s legal representative, P. Startek,
the Tenant, and the Tenant’s legal
representative, K. Farrell, attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Landlord served the Tenant with two N5 notices of
termination alleging that the Tenant repeatedly failed to prepare the rental
unit for pest control treatment. The
Landlord also claimed $339.00 for damage it alleges the Tenant caused
to baseboards and drywall in
the rental unit.
 
2.     The rental unit is an apartment in a multi-unit high rise residential building.
 
3.     In the first N5 notice of termination, the Landlord alleged
that the Tenant
denied access to pest control for a treatment on October
22, 2020, despite the fact that it was the Tenant who had initiated the
maintenance complaint about cockroaches. Another
treatment was scheduled for October 30, 2020.
The Landlord’s pest control technician was permitted entry on October
30, 2020, and the Landlord submits that the Tenant voided the first N5 notice
of termination.




 
4.    
The second N5 notice of
termination was deemed served on February 22, 2021, and alleged that the Tenant
had failed to prepare for a number of pest control treatments scheduled on
dates in January, 2021. The Landlord
also alleged that on January 25, 2021, the Landlord
found damage to baseboards and drywall caused
by the Tenant or the
Tenant’s dog. It also alleged that
the holes and crevices caused by the damaged
drywall and baseboards facilitated entry of cockroaches, and it lessened the effectiveness
of any treatments that were carried out.
 
Attempted Pest Control Treatments:
Landlord’s Evidence
5.    
The Landlord’s witnesses were L. Dixon
(LD), supervisor for Apex pest control, M. Nicolau (MN) and G. Atanasiu (GA), the
Landlord’s employees.
 
6.    
MN said that she normally
accompanies the pest control technician to the various rental units that are to
be treated, and she is the person who permits entry. She said that she personally
witnesses the condition of the rental
unit, but she does not remain
in the units during treatment. The
Landlord submitted into evidence a series of photos that were
taken of the Tenant’s rental unit during visits
with pest control.
 
7.     LD said that he is familiar with the
residential complex, and he is a
supervisor of training and quality
control for Apex pest control. He has
been in pest control for 46 years, and he trains most of the technicians that
carry out the pest control treatments. He
did not personally carry out the pest control treatment at the rental
unit, but he is responsible for the work reports submitted by all the field representatives. He said that each field representative
fills in a report at the end of the day. He
took responsibility for the field reports submitted with respect to the
Tenant’s rental unit.
 
8.     The Landlord’s evidence was that, despite providing
the Tenant with detailed instructions about how to properly prepare for pest
control treatment, and despite providing her with lawful notice of when pest control
would be carried
out, she failed to prepare
her unit on a
number of dates in the Autumn of 2020 and the Winter of 2021. The Landlord submitted documentary
evidence of notices provided to the Tenant, documentary
instructions about preparation
provided to the Tenant, and photographic evidence of the state of the rental
unit on days when pest control was scheduled to carry out treatments.
 
9.     LD said that a number of photographs demonstrated
severe infestation in the rental unit, minimal preparation, and areas of
disrepair. He said that if no, or
minimal preparation is done then the technician is not able to access areas
that require treatment and the problem will persist. He also said that if cupboards are not emptied and prepared, and
if there are too many objects
and personal belongings left lying around,
then it is impossible
to spray because of contamination. He
also said that cockroaches particularly like to find shelter in lots of clutter
and mess. He said that the photos, as
well as the field reports he received, indicate that the Tenant had not
properly prepared her rental unit, she had not emptied cupboards as required,
and she left a lot of belongings and detritus around the unit, all of which
would provide an inviting environment for cockroaches.




 
10.  MN gave evidence about the events that gave rise to
the first N5 notice of termination. She said that entry notice was given on
October 19, 2020, for entry for pest control treatment on October 22, 2020. MN said that the Tenant
cancelled the October
22, 2020, and she refused entry
that day in order to
permit the pest control technician to inspect the unit. The
treatment had to be rescheduled.
 
11.  GA said that live cockroaches were discovered in the rental
unit again in January, 2021. There were a number of dates when
treatment was scheduled, but she said the pest control was unable to carry out
treatment because the unit was not properly prepared. She said that she personally took some of the photos
that showed the unit cluttered
with items. In particular,
there were lots of food items left in the kitchen cupboards.
 
12.  GA said that on January 25, 2021, she discovered the
baseboards of the kitchen area and the drywall were missing or damaged. She said that she believed the holes and
gaps in the wall in the damaged areas made it easier for cockroaches to enter
the rental unit, and she felt it was imperative to repair the damage. She submitted into evidence an estimate for fixing the baseboard and
drywall in the amount of $339.00.
 
13.   After fixing the damage, GA said that the Landlord
attempted to enter the rental unit to carry out a proper pest control treatment on February 19, 2021. She said that when the pest control arrived, the Tenant was
not home, and the rental unit was not prepared.
 
Tenant’s Evidence
 
14.  The Tenant’s testimony was not consistent. She said that she did not remember
whether there were any defects in the rental unit when she moved in, but
she also said that the corners on the baseboards were already damaged and
lifting when she got her puppy. The Tenant said that her puppy was able to
easily take the baseboards off the wall because they were not in a good state
of repair.
 
15.  The Tenant said that she had someone examine the
damage when it was brought to her attention by GA, but the Landlord sent
someone in to fix them before she had the opportunity to fix them herself. She denies that they were as damaged as claimed by the Landlord, and she said that she could
have repaired them for half the price the Landlord now claims. The Tenant also said that GA was
well aware of any baseboard damage for about two years before they
sent someone in to fix it.
 
16.  The Tenant provided testimony about the events of
October, 2020, when she cancelled the pest control treatment. However, this incident
formed the basis of the first N5 notice
of termination, which was voided by the Tenant.
 
17.  The Tenant’s evidence with respect to the unprepared
unit for various scheduled pest control treatments in January and February,
2021, was that she prepared her unit to the best of her ability. She
said that she has not always been given proper instruction
about how to prepare. She has a lot
of belongings, and she has nowhere to put them. She said that clothing is on the floor because she does not have
another place to put them. The Tenant said that she did not have enough time to clear out her bathroom
vanity, and in any case, the
cockroaches were only in the kitchen. The
Tenant insisted that the




 
photos did not represent
her lack of preparation because
the photos only showed the areas that were not prepared, and they
did not show all the areas where she had prepared for the treatment.
 
18.  The Landlord submits
that the Tenant consistently fails to prepare her rental unit for
pest control treatment. The Landlord does not seek eviction, but rather a conditional order for
the Tenant to comply with the instructions for proper pest control treatment. The Landlord also seeks $339.00 for
repairing the damage to the baseboards and walls caused by the Tenant, or the
Tenant’s pet.
 
19.  The Tenant denies
owing $339.00 for damage, as the extent
of damage has been grossly exaggerated by the Landlord. She submits that she could have repaired
the alleged damage for half the price. The Tenant submits that the global pandemic exacerbated her ability to do simple tasks like
preparing her unit for pest control, and the Tenant was overwhelmed by simply
not having enough room to store her belongings.
 
Reasons and Analysis:
 
Substantial Interference:
 
20.  The Landlord gave the Tenant N5 notices of termination
for conduct that substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the
residential complex by the Landlord or another tenant or that substantially
interfered with another lawful, right, privilege or interest of the landlord
or another tenant,
pursuant to subsection 64(1) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) because the Tenant failed to prepare her
rental unit for proper treatment by pest control.
 
21.  The Tenant originally failed to permit entry for treatment or for inspection for treatment in October, 2020, but she voided that
notice when she permitted entry at the end of October, 2020.
 
22.  The Landlord provided substantial documentary evidence
of notices of entry for treatment, duly served
on the Tenant in January
and February 2021. Accompanied by these notices, were detailed
instruction sheets for preparation of the rental unit for treatment. The Landlord’s witnesses provided
testimony of serving these notices and sheets.
 
23.  The Landlord’s witnesses provided extensive testimony
about entering the rental unit a number of times after due notice had been given,
and finding the rental unit in a state of clutter, unprepared, and providing a
particularly good environment for cockroaches to enter and find refuge. The Landlord’s expert witness gave
testimony about why it was impossible to treat a unit when it was in that
state. The witnesses’ testimony was
supported by photographs that showed a unit with personal belongings strewn all
over, and lots of food objects and other personal objects in cupboards. The unit was in that state on dates when
the Tenant had been advised pest control would be arriving for treatment.




 
24.  The Tenant’s testimony
was that she had done her best to prepare
the rental unit, but she
had too many belongings. In essence,
the Tenant admits that she did not prepare the rental unit as per the
instructions she was provided, and the Landlord was therefore prohibited from
carrying out proper pest control treatment on a number of occasions.
 
25.  The Tenant did not fail to prepare her rental unit on
one occasion. She had a repeated
history of failing to prepare
her rental unit for pest control. There were
a number of dates for which
the Landlord had evidence that the Tenant had failed to prepare her unit.
Cockroaches were able to find a favourable environment to breed and spread in
the rental unit, and they did so. Cockroaches do not remain in one place. They
spread, and this would undoubtedly affect the Landlord’s ability to keep the entire residential complex free from pests.
 
26.  Based on the above, I find that the Landlord has
proved, on a balance of probabilities, that the Tenant has substantially
interfered with the Landlord’s right to maintain the residential complex
in a good state of repair and fit for habitation, complying with health, safety, housing
and maintenance standards as it
is obliged to under subsection 20(1) of the Act. This
behaviour has also substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the
residential complex by the landlord and other tenants.
 
Damage:
 
27.  The Landlord submitted into evidence photos of a wall
where the baseboard had been completely ripped off. The Landlord had an estimate from their contractor, that
included repair, patch, sand and prime the drywall,
glue and replace
baseboard in two areas of the
rental unit, hallway and kitchen entrance. The
price of $339.00 included labour and materials, but not the baseboard itself. The Tenant admitted that her puppy chewed
and ripped off the baseboard. There
was no photographic or documentary evidence that the baseboard was in a state
of disrepair or particularly susceptible to being ripped off the wall.
 
28.  Consequently, I find that the Landlord proved, on a
balance of probabilities, that it was the Tenant, an occupant, or in this case, a pet, that damaged the baseboard. I find that
$339.00 is a reasonable amount for the labour and materials required
to repair the baseboard.
 
29.  Therefore, the Tenant or her pet wilfully or
negligently caused undue damage to the rental unit by damaging the baseboard,
and the Landlord incurred costs of $339.00 to repair the property that was damaged
and could not be reasonably repaired. The Tenant will be ordered to pay this amount
to the Landlord.
 
Section 83 Considerations:
30.  The Landlord is not seeking
eviction. They request
an order that requires the Tenant to properly prepare her unit for pest
control treatment upon being given lawful notice and instruction. The Tenant has provided no circumstances
or reasons for being unable to comply except that she has too many belongings. I do not find the Tenant’s excuse a




 
reasonable one for failing to
carry out thorough preparation, so as to ensure that cockroaches do not infest
the residential complex. I find that
it is reasonable for the Landlord to carry out unimpeded pest control treatment
in the rental unit when it is required, in order to fulfill
its maintenance obligations, and the Tenant will be ordered to comply.
 
31.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances
above in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'),
and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief from
eviction subject to the conditions
set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1) of the Act.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     Upon lawful notice
by the Landlord, accompanied by thorough instructions, the Tenant shall
ensure that her rental unit is thoroughly prepared for any future pest control treatment.
 
2.     If the Tenant fails to comply with paragraph one of
this order, the Landlord may apply under section 78 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’), within 30 days of the breach, without
notice to the Tenant, for an order
terminating the tenancy
and evicting the Tenant.
 
3.    
The Tenant shall pay to the Landlord $339.00,
which represents the reasonable costs of
repairing the damage to the baseboards caused by the Tenant or her pet.
 
4.     The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing the application.
 
5.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before February
19, 2022, the Tenant will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from February 20, 2022
at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
 
February 8, 2022 Date Issued
Nancy Morris
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West, 6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

