Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-06
File number:	
SOL-12917-20-AM

Citation:	Fednik v Gillespie, 2022 CanLII 87357 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2pj>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Amended Order
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
And section 21.1 of the Statutory Powers Procedure Act
 
File Number: SOL-12917-20-AM
 
 



In the matter
of:


BASEMENT, 34 FAIRHOLT ROAD S HAMILTON ON
  L8M2T3


 




Between:


Jaroslaw Fednik


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Scarlett
  Gillespie


Tenant



 
 
Jaroslaw Fednik (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Scarlett Gillespie (the 'Tenant') because
the Landlord intends
to convert the rental unit to a non-residential
use. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in
the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by
videoconference on November 23, 2021.
 
The Landlord, the Landlord’s legal representative Tim Kelly, the Tenant and the Tenant’s
legal representative Katie Gillespie Remington attended
the hearing.
 
This amended order
is issued to correct typographic errors in the original
order issued January 6, 2022. The amendments are marked
in bold and underlined for ease of reference.
 
Reasons:
 
1.    
These reasons explain why the Tenant’s
motion to dismiss
the Landlord’s application is granted. In short, the Landlord does not require the rental
unit to be vacated in order to
convert it to a non-residential use and the Board therefore does not have
jurisdiction to terminate the tenancy
and evict the Tenant on the basis of a notice of termination
given under paragraph 50(1)(b) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’).
 
History
 
2.    
This application was scheduled
for hearing before
a different Member
on May 14, 2020. That Member
heard some of the evidence but left the Board before the matter was concluded.
The result is that this application was heard de novo.
 
Evidence




 
3.    
The Hamilton Fire Department
issued an Inspection Order under the Fire Protection and Prevention Act,
1997, S.O. 1997, c. 4 on November 27, 2019. The residential complex was found to be in contravention of O. Reg. 213/07 (the ‘Fire Code’). Appendix
B sets out various actions the
Landlord must take to bring the residential complex into compliance, including removing
combustibles, removing obstructions and mounting a fire extinguisher.
 
4.    
An Order to Comply from the City of Hamilton dated December 5, 2019 notes that there has been a change of use without the issuance of the required
building permit. The change of use is described as converting the residential
complex from a two family to a four family dwelling.
This Order directs
the Landlord to obtain a change of use permit
for the above address.
 
5.    
An Order to Comply from the City
of Hamilton dated December 5, 2019 notes that construction has commenced at the
residential complex without the issuance of the required permit. The construction described is interior
and exterior waterproofing. This Order directs the Landlord to obtain
a permit for all construction at the residential complex.
 
6.    
The Landlord’s witness Ms. Tricia
Florence provided testimony. She was the Landlord’s property manager
when the Landlord
issued the N13. Although
Ms. Florence testified that she could not remember all details with 100% accuracy due
to the passage of time and because she had turned over all documents to the
Landlord’s previous representative, Ms. Florence explained that she began to
manage the residential complex it was operating as a 4-plex.
 
7.    
Ms. Florence explained that she prepared
the N13 notice
of termination issued
to the Tenant on January 13,
2020. This notice was given under paragraph 50(1)(b) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’), which provides:
 
50 (1) A landlord
may give notice
of termination of a tenancy
if the landlord requires
possession of the rental unit in order
to, . . . (b) convert it to
use for a purpose other than
residential premises[.]
 
8.     By way of reasons and details, the N13 issued
to the Tenant states that the work planned
is to “convert the basement and attic units to non residential”. The N13
asserts the following details of the work:
 
Landlord is complying with
City of Hamilton Order attached in converting both basement and attic units to non residential. Converting residence back to its duplex
status.
 
9.     On cross-examination, Ms. Florence admitted that based
on her discussions with the Landlord her understanding of the Landlord’s purpose when the N13 was issued was to
combine the 4 residential units into 2 residential units, with both used for
residential purposes. With respect
to the rental unit in particular, Ms. Florence testified
that the goal was for the first floor tenant and
the Landlord to use the rental unit for living and for storage space,
in part because
the mechanical room for
the residential complex
is in the basement.




 
10.  Ms. Florence also admitted to sending an e-mail to a Mr. Spelic from the City of Hamilton on February 21, 2020. In this
e-mail, which is dated after the N13 was issued, Ms.
Florence writes that “the goal is to return
the home to a duplex or a triplex depending
on how the tribunal unfolds on May 14th.”
Ms. Florence explained this e-mail by stating that the Landlord received information that a third
unit in the residential complex was a legal non-conforming use. When pressed
further, Ms. Florence admitted that it was the Landlord’s intention to first
evict the Tenant and then decide whether to convert the residential complex
into a triplex or a duplex.
 
11.  The Landlord also testified and confirmed that when he
purchased the residential complex there were 4 rental
units. He testified that his intention at the time the N13 was issued was to convert the residential
complex to a duplex.
 
12.  The Landlord explained on cross-examination that the
Landlord subsequently learned that the residential complex was a legal
non-confirming triplex and that the Landlord’s intention changed to converting
the residential complex to a triplex. The Landlord also admitted that a similar
notice was given to the tenant in the attic, that this tenant had vacated and
that there were three units in the complex as of the date of the hearing.
Although the Landlord testified on direct examination that his intention was to leave the
basement unit empty, the Landlord admitted on cross-examination that upon
reconfiguration the basement unit would be storage and living space for the
first floor tenant.
 
Analysis
 
13.  As noted above, the Landlord
can only obtain
an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenant under paragraph
50(1)(b) of the Act if the Landlord requires possession of the rental unit in
order to convert it to use for a purpose other than residential premises.
 
14.  The Landlord’s position was that the Landlord did not
testify that any other tenant would be using the rental unit for storage and
that there was no evidence that upon reconfiguration there would be any
residential use of what is now the Tenant’s unit. On this point,
I accept that the Landlord
testified that he intended to leave the basement unit empty and that there were
engineering drawings confirming this plan.
 
15.  There are several reasons why I do not accept the
Landlord’s testimony on this issue. First, Ms. Florence admitted that the
Landlord’s goal when he issued the N13 was to combine 4 residential units into
2 residential units, with both used for residential purposes. This
caused me to doubt the Landlord’s testimony. Second, the Landlord did not introduce
any engineering documents to support his testimony. This caused me to doubt the
Landlord’s testimony. Third and most importantly, even if I ignore the doubts
created by Ms. Florence’s testimony and the Landlord’s failure to provide
corroborating evidence in support
of his testimony, the Landlord himself
admitted on cross-examination that upon
reconfiguration of the residential complex the Tenant’s unit will continue to
be used as storage and living space for the first floor tenants. This is the
evidence that the Landlord’s legal representative cited as lacking.




 
16.  The Landlord’s admission that the rental
unit would continue
to be used as a living space for other tenants is in my view
confirmation that rental unit will continue to be used as residential premises.
The result is that the Board cannot terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenant
on the basis of an N13 given under paragraph 50(1)(b) of the Act.
 
17.  For the sake of completeness, I should note that Ms. Florence also testified that one of
the Landlord’s reasons for seeking to evict the Tenant was because
the basement of the residential
complex houses mechanical equipment and the water heater, and I should also
note that the Landlord also testified that the decision to evict the Tenant was
informed by his desire to eliminate safety issues with the furnace and
electricity. While I agree that it would be more convenient for the Landlord if
he had easier access to the
utility room, the Landlord’s
motivations do not change the fact that the Landlord’s intention for what is now the Tenant’s rental
unit continues to be use as residential premises, including living
space for the first floor tenants.
 
18.  I should also note that the Landlord’s evidence also
suggested that the Landlord’s intention was for part of the rental unit to be
used for the Landlord’s and other tenants’ storage. In my view, neither of
these uses can be described as use for a purpose other than residential premises. This conclusion is consistent with the Board’s
jurisprudence on this issue.
 
19.  For example, the Tenant’s legal representative
referred me to the Board’s decision in TSL-66897-15 (Re), 2015 CanLII 99152 (ON LTB).
Although I offered the Landlord’s legal representative time to review this decision before making
closing submissions, the Landlord’s representative declined this opportunity,
perhaps because this decision is cited
with approval in Board Interpretation Guideline 12, Eviction for Personal
Use, Demolition, Repairs an Conversion.
 
20.  In TSL-66897-15 the Board dismissed a
landlord’s application because the landlord in question wished to use the
rental unit for residential purposes, just not rented residential purposes. By
this the Member was referring to the Landlord’s testimony to the effect that he
intended to use the rental unit as storage space for his family. The Board also
held that that a landlord cannot use an N13 as a method to spread an existing
use into another part of the same
premises. Following this logic, the Landlord’s application should still be dismissed even if one of the Landlord’s intended
uses for the property is spreading
the existing use of the first floor tenants into what is now the Tenant’s unit,
providing
those tenants with storage
or using some of what is now the Tenant’s
unit for his own
personal storage.
 
21.  I also find support for this conclusion in the
Divisional Court’s decision in Sertic v Mergarten, 2017 ONSC 263 (CanLII). In that case,
the Court considered the meaning of the words “for the purpose of residential
occupation” in subsection 48(1) of the
Act. The Court held, in part:
 
In my view, the Vice-Chair’s
interpretation, that requiring the premises for the purposes of storage and
other uses directly related to the landlord’s otherwise personal occupation of other portions
of the premises meets the requirement of residential occupation, is a
reasonable one.




 
22.  Although Sertic is not exactly on point,
because the Landlord does not live in the residential complex and because
the Sertic decision concerns
the interpretation of “for
the purpose of residential
occupation” in section 48 rather than “use for a purpose other than residential
premises” in section 50, I find that there is little to distinguish the two
phrases. Occupation for residential purposes
is in substance the same concept as using
residential premises.
 
23.  The Board applied
the reasoning in Sertic in
the context of an N13 given under
paragraph 50(1)(b) of the Act in TEL-85933-17 (Re), 2018 CanLII
42503 (ON LTB). The Landlord’s legal representative also declined the
opportunity to review this decision before making closing submissions. One of
this issues in TEL-85933-17 was whether or not the landlord’s proposal to store
her possessions in the rental unit was a non-residential use; in that case
moving her possessions from her own basement to the rental unit to
give her grandchildren room to run and play. After considering Sertic the
Member found that the Landlord’s proposal did not constitute conversion to non-residential use. The Landlord
did not intend to turn the rental unit into a commercial storage
facility or business and the storage contemplated in the rental unit was simply
a reproduction of what currently existed in the landlord’s home.
 
24.  In the present case, there was no evidence that the
Landlord intended to convert what is now the Tenant’s rental unit into a
commercial storage facility or business. Rather, the Landlord’s testimony
was that the first floor
tenants would be able to use the Tenant’s unit for living space and storage. Using
what is now the Tenant’s unit for living space is using that space as
residential premises. Using some of that space for storage does not constitute
a use for a purpose other than residential premises because
this use is directly related to their use of what is now the Tenant’s unit as
residential premises.
 
25.  The Landlord’s application will therefore be dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
 
January 6, 2022 Date Issued
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
February 3, 2022
Date Amended
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

