Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-27
File number:	
SOL-17878-20

Citation:	D.D Acquisitions Partnership v Savage, 2022 CanLII 80924 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrshf>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 



 


Order under
Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act,
2006


 




 


File Number:
SOL-17878-20




 
In the matter
  of:


 
1, 123 EMERALD
STREET S HAMILTON ON L8N2V4


 




Between:


D.D Acquisitions Partnership


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


James Savage


Tenant



 
 
 
D.D. Acquisitions Partnership
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict James Savage (the 'Tenant') because
the Tenant did not pay the rent that the Tenant owes.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on June 1, 2021 and October 29, 2021.
 
The Landlord’s Legal
representative, Stephanie Lauersen, the Landlord’s Agent and Property Manager, Derrick
Amoako, and the Tenant attended
the hearing. The Landlord’s Superintendent, Martina Breese, attended
as a witness for the Landlord and provided evidence. The Tenant declined to
speak with Duty Counsel prior to the hearing. As per Interim Order dated June
29, 2021, the hearing was adjourned as additional hearing time was required.
 
At the return of the hearing
on October 29, 2021, the Landlord’s Legal Representative, Stephanie Lauersen, the Landlord’s Agent and Property
Manager, Derick Amoako,
and the Tenant
attended the hearing.
 
At the hearing
the Tenant raised
issues pursuant to section 82 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act').
 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Issue – Service of the Notice
of Termination
 
1.       
The Tenant submits he never received
a copy of the Notice of Termination (the “N4”). I reserved my decision on this issue at
the hearing.
 
2.       
The Landlord’s Acting Site Supervisor, Martina
Breese, attended and testified she served the N4 on October
8, 2020, by placing it under the door of the Tenant’s rental unit. Later in her testimony she testified it was her husband who got the N4 under
the Tenant’s door.




 
3.       
The Tenant submits there is no room
to place a Notice of Termination under his door as
there is no gap under his door.
 
4.       
The Landlord’s evidence with
respect to service was inconsistent in so far as she first testified that she placed
the N4 under the Tenant’s
door and later that her husband did. This discrepancy was not reconciled
and therefore little weight is attached to her testimony.
 
5.       
As a result, I find the Landlord failed
to prove the N4 was
served.
 
6.       
As I initially reserved, the
Landlord did not advise whether they
wished to proceed with arrears only if I found the N4 invalid. Therefore, out
of an abundance of caution, I am dismissing the Landlord’s application without consideration of its merits.
This preserves the Landlord’s
opportunity to file a new application and seek any remedies they would
otherwise have sought through this application.
 
The Tenant
is Permitted to Proceed with their Issues
Under Section 82 of the Act
 
7.       
Despite the dismissal of the
Landlord’s application, where a Tenant has properly raised issues under section
82 of the Act, the Board must consider these issues. This is because a hearing
was held for a determination on the merits of the Landlord’s arrears and
eviction application, which, in this case, was dismissed given my determination
the N4 was invalid. Section 82 requires the Board to permit the Tenant to raise issues where
the Tenant complies with disclosure requirements and a hearing is held. That
is, the Tenant’s ability to raise issues is not tied to whether the Landlord’s
application proceeds or is successful on the merits,
but rather on whether a hearing is held, which in this case,
it was.
 
8.       
The Tenant emailed the Landlord and Board a list of issues he intended to raise on May
25, 2021. I find the Tenant complied with the requirements to advance issues
under section 82 of the Act.
 
9.       
The Landlord’s Representative
objected to the Tenant proceeding with issues under section 82 of the Act
claiming the Landlord had not been notified of the Tenant’s complaints and had no opportunity to address these
substantively. Whether the Landlord
was advised of complaints and how they responded may be relevant to a defence
to the Tenant’s claims but are not notice issues.
 
10.   
The Tenant provided proper notice. I further find the Tenant’s
emails provided sufficient details such that the Landlord
could know the case they had to meet, properly prepare and respond.
 
11.    At the hearing
on June 1, 2021, the Landlord’s Representative admitted she had spoken
with her clients about these issues, had witnesses on standby, and was not
seeking an adjournment. Finally, I note that as this application was adjourned
after the Tenant’s evidence, the Landlord had months to prepare before the
return on October 29, 2021.




 
12.   
Given these considerations, I will now consider issues
raised pursuant to s. 82.
 
Determinations on the Tenant’s Section
82 Issues
 
13.    The Tenant pursued
five main issues at the hearing. These were: the Landlord’s failure
to accept his rent, the failure of the Landlord to treat cockroaches in
his unit, the lack of a smoke alarm in his rental
unit, interactions with another Tenant,
and interest owing
on his rent deposit dating back years. I address each of these in turn
below.
 
14.    In his section 82 email the Tenant also identified he
received a vague notice about his housekeeping from the Landlord and requested
an explanation. On its own requesting clarification about a letter
is not something that could be the proper subject
of a tenant’s application and was not considered.
 
Landlord’s Failure
to Collect Rent
 
15.   
The Tenant’s complaint is that the
Landlord does not have someone at the residential complex on the first of each
month to whom he can pay rent and there is no drop box on site. He characterized the situation as him having to hunt the Landlord
down to deliver
his rent.
 
16.   
The Tenant has the funds to pay rent and obtains
money orders each month to pay the Landlord. However, the Tenant takes the position the Landlord must have someone
on site to collect the rent from him on the first day of each month.
 
17.   
The Tenant alleges a prior order of the Board in application SOL-10809-19 dated March 31, 2020, (the “March 31 Order”) ordered
the Landlord to have someone
in place on the first of every month to receive the
Tenant’s rent.
 
18.    The Tenant is incorrect.
 
19.   
I
have reviewed the March 31 Order. No order was made the Landlord had to have someone attend on the premises to
collect the rent.
 
20.    The Tenant has an obligation to pay rent in full and on time.
 
21.    The Landlord has provided the Tenant with contact
information for their Property Manager and Acting Site Supervisors. Tenants are able to pay rent through
different means including an online payment system or by mailing it to
head office.
 
22.    The Property Manager
testified the Acting
Site Supervisors are normally on site for one to two hours every day. Even if this is
not the case, the Tenant has been advised to contact them and they will make
arrangements with the Tenant for the payment of rent at his convenience.
 
23.   
After the hearing on June 1, 2021,
the Tenant and Property Manager met on June 2, 2021. The Tenant provided
payment for the then outstanding rent arrears. The Tenant




 
admitted he has chosen
not to contact the Acting
Site Supervisors or Landlord to make
arrangements to pay his rent since June 2, 2021.
 
24.   
The Tenant sent his rent to the
Landlord for July and August via registered mail. As at October 29, 2021, he had obtained
money orders for September and October but had not provided these to the Landlord. He
suggested he would provide these to the Landlord after the hearing.
 
25.    The Tenant asserts
past phone calls were never returned and he was ignored. However, he also admitted he never
emailed the Property Manager.
 
26.   
Regardless of past communications, or lack of communication, between
the parties, the Tenant is able to pay rent to the
Landlord without speaking with the Landlord’s Agents.
 
27.   
For instance, the Tenant
may mail rent to the Landlord. There is no requirement rent be sent via registered mail with any of
the associated increased costs. That is a choice
the Tenant is making.
 
28.   
I
find the Tenant has unreasonably withheld paying rent.
 
29.   
The Tenant’s claim regarding
the Landlord’s failure
to collect rent is dismissed.
 
Landlord’s Failure
to Respond to the Tenant
 
30.   
In addition to the communication
issues regarding payment of rent, the Tenant raised a number of other issues
that have at their core allegations the Landlord has not responded to the Tenant. These are
discussed below.
 
Cockroaches
 
31.    The Tenant testified
there are cockroaches in his rental unit and it has not been sprayed
since the Spring of 2019.
 
32.    The Tenant testified
he left a voicemail for the Landlord
and handed a list
of requests to the Acting Site Supervisor in September
20219 which list included the roach issue.
 
33.    In his email of section
82 issues the Tenant indicates
he told the Landlord about this but his calls were not returned. The
Tenant also indicated a treatment was scheduled for March 2020 but this did not
happen due to a lockdown.
 
34.    The Tenant testified he has treated
the roaches somewhat
using an organic
compound but stated this is not
a complete remedy as roaches are coming through a shared wall. The Tenant testified he wants the Landlord to
treat his rental unit but also stated they must wait as he does not have a
place to go while the rental unit is being sprayed.
 
35.   
The Property Manager testified he was never contacted by the Tenant
regarding pests in his unit and the Acting Site
Supervisor testified the Tenant never submitted a maintenance request for
pests.




 
 
 
36.   
The Acting Site Supervisor
testified the Landlord attempted to schedule a treatment for pests following
the hearing on June 1, 2021, but the Tenant denied entry posting signs that said no entry due to COVID. The Tenant admitted
he received a notice, denied
entry, and posted a notice that said “Pest control will not be
admitted.”
 
37.    The Acting Site Supervisor testified to the COVID
safety practices of the pest control company
as well as how other
rental units have been treated
throughout the pandemic.
 
38.    I find the Landlord’s evidence they were not
previously told about the roach issues consistent with their actions
taken following the hearing on June
1, 2021. By the Tenant’s own admission, he denied
entry to pest control. The Tenant’s evidence
was he has been addressing this on his own and does
not wish anyone to enter his rental unit at this time.
 
39.    As a result, I find the Tenant has not satisfied their
onus that, on the balance of probabilities, the Landlord breached their
obligations under the Act with respect to spraying for cockroaches. The Tenant’s claim regarding cockroaches is dismissed.
 
Smoke Alarm
 
40.    The Tenant testified
his smoke alarm was removed
by an inspector in 2019. He does not
seek a monetary remedy but instead asks that the smoke alarm be replaced. At
the return of the hearing on October 29, 2021, he clarified he does not require
anyone to replace his smoke alarm – he can do this himself.
 
41.    The Landlord did not deny there should be a smoke alarm in the Tenant’s rental unit. In fact, the Property Manager testified a
missing smoke alarm is a serious issue.
 
42.    Neither the Property
Manager nor the Acting Site Supervisor testified they were contacted by the Tenant about a smoke
alarm. The Property Manager also testified a Fire Life safety inspection was
conducted of the rental unit in 2020 by a professional technician and there
were no deficiencies noted at that time.
 
43.    The Acting Site Supervisor testified that following
the June 1, 2021 hearing the Tenant was provided with a notice
to permit entry to the rental unit to inspect
whether there was a smoke alarm.
 
44.    The Acting Site Supervisor said the Tenant
denied entry due to the proximity of the return of the hearing and COVID. The
Tenant denied he received a notice regarding the smoke alarm.
 
45.   
I find it is more likely than not
that the Tenant denied the Landlord entry to the rental unit to confirm
the absence of a smoke
alarm. The Tenant denying entry is consistent with his reaction to the request to permit spraying
and his statements he does not require
anyone to replace a smoke alarm as he can do it himself.




 
46.   
In contrast, the Landlord’s
request to verify the absence of a smoke alarm is consistent with their
evidence the rental unit was inspected by a professional technician in 2020
where no deficiencies were noted,
the importance of a smoke alarm, and that they were
not previously advised there was a missing smoke alarm.
 
47.    As a
result, I find the Tenant
has not satisfied their burden of proof that, on the balance of probabilities, the Landlord is in
breach of their obligations under the Act with respect to the smoke alarm. The
Tenant’s claim regarding the smoke alarm is dismissed.
 
Interactions with Another Tenant
 
48.   
The Tenant testified there was an incident on March 20, 2019, where he witnessed
an assault and called 911. As
a result, the Tenant said he was threatened by the alleged assaultor, another tenant, and subpoenaed to be a
witness at a trial regarding these events.
 
49.    The Tenant indicated that after a no communication undertaking was in effect between him and the accused, this other
tenant left his dogs in the hall and they attacked the Tenant’s dogs on
multiple occasions.
 
50.    At the hearing the Tenant admitted the last issue with this other tenant
was over a year
ago and the case had been resolved.
 
51.    The Property Manager
and Acting Site Supervisor each testified they were never contacted by the Tenant about these
interactions.
 
52.   
This is consistent with the Tenant’s
testimony he would have addressed this with the Landlord if there was open
communication and the Landlord was not focused on his
eviction.
 
53.    I find the Tenant did not tell the
Landlord about issues
with another tenant
and so has not satisfied
their burden of proof that the Landlord is in breach of their obligations under
the Act in this regard. The Tenant’s claim regarding interactions with another
tenant is dismissed.
 
Comment on Parties’ Communications and Obligations
 
54.    As set out above, the Landlord has provided
information regarding how the Tenant may pay his rent and made efforts to ensure the Tenant’s rent will be collected in person at his convenience.
 
55.   
The Landlord also has obligations under the Act including
to maintain the rental unit in a good state of repair fit for habitation
and for complying with health, safety, housing and maintenance standards. I find the Landlord
has made efforts to respond to the Tenant’s complaints.




 
56.   
The Tenant’s statements about poor
past communications are counterbalanced against the fact that he testified he did not email the Property
Manager and has not attempted
to arrange rent payments since the last hearing. If the Tenant finds
oral communications ineffective, the Tenant has access to methods of
communication such as email which would also provide a written record and I
encourage him to do so.
 
Interest on Rent Deposit
 
57.   
The final issue is the Tenant’s claim for interest
on his rent deposit. The Tenant claims interest was not paid on his rent
deposit going back multiple years to the previous Landlord.
 
58.    In the March 31 Order,
the Board determined:
 
2. The Tenant paid a last month's rent
deposit in the amount of $606.72 on October 29, 2014. The date of August 28, 2019 which is reflected
in the L1 application as the date the rent deposit was collected, is
incorrect and pertains to the date the Landlord took over the ownership and
management of the residential complex.
 
The March 31 Order is silent on the issue of interest.
 
59.    The Tenant said he disputed
the last month’s
rent deposit, but he just could not prove it on the day of the hearing that
resulted in the March 31 Order.
 
60.   
The findings in a Board order may only be challenged by means of a
review request or an appeal. The
Tenant did not request a review of
the March 31 Order nor was I advised
the decision was appealed. The Tenant is attempting to have the Board
reconsider an issue that has already been determined by the Board. This is an
improper collateral attack on the March 31 Order and is also
likely barred by the doctrine
of issue estoppel. Raising the amount of
the last month’s rent deposit, even with further evidence, is not an avenue
open to the Tenant.
 
61.    Consistent with the March 31, Order, the Property
Manager testified the Landlord received the Tenant’s last month’s rent deposit
in the amount of $606.72 when they purchased
the residential complex.
This amount is equivalent to what the Board found was collected on October 29, 2014.
The Landlord presented no evidence regarding whether the previous Landlord paid
interest.
 
62.    The Tenant stated
he was not paid interest
by the previous Landlord; however,
the Tenant’s evidence is partisan.
 
63.    The previous Landlord was not present and would have
the best evidence on this issue as they would presumably have access to ledger and records. This would have been the Tenant’s best evidence. I infer the
Tenant did not call the previous Landlord as there appeared to be a breakdown
in the relationship and lack of faith in the prior Landlord. That said,
witnesses are required to tell the
truth and are subject to
cross-examination. I find the Tenant’s failure to call the prior Landlord
detracts from his evidence.




 
Nonetheless, it remains the sole evidence
before me as the Landlord’s Representative submitted the Landlord could not speak to what
the prior Landlord did, or did not.
 
64.   
In the absence of any other testimony, I find the Tenant was not paid interest on their
last month’s rent deposit
by the prior Landlord. As covenants run
with the land, the obligation
to pay this interest improperly retained falls on the shoulders of the
Landlord.
 
65.   
In this instance, the Landlord did
not argue that the Tenant should only be entitled to interest payable during
the one-year limitation period set out in s. 135(4). Given the Divisional
Court’s reasoning in 626114 & 626115 Ontario Ltd. v. Tirado, 2005
CanLII 36461, (ON SCDC),
I believe the Tenant is entitled to the
entirety of the interest retained by the Landlord.
 
66.    With respect to interest on the last month’s rent
deposit since the sale of the residential complex, I find the Landlord has paid this up to December 31, 2020. This includes $3.78, which was attributed to the rent
deposit on December 31, 2019, and $13.47 which the Landlord has credited
towards the Tenant’s arrears on the new rent deposit of $610.50. The Tenant provided no evidence these amounts
were not paid by the
Landlord - he just rejects that it is sufficient.
 
67.   
I find the Tenant is owed interest
on his last month’s rent deposit. Interest on the last month’s rent deposit of $606.72 from October 29, 20214 to December 31, 2019 totals
$42.54. From this the $3.72 the Landlord credited
to the rent deposit after their purchase of the residential complex must
be subtracted. This results in a total of $38.82. the Landlord will pay the
Tenant $38.82.
 
It is ordered
that:
 
1.       
The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
2.       
The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant the sum of $38.82 which represents the improperly
retained interest on the Tenant’s last month’s rent deposit.
 
3.       
The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant the full amount
owing by February
7, 2022.
 
4.       
If the Landlord does not pay the
Tenant the full amount owing by February 7, 2022, the Landlord will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from February
8, 0222 at 2.00% annually on the outstanding balance.
 
5.       
The Tenant has the right,
at any time, to collect
the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
 
January 27, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Rebecca Case
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board




 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West, 6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

