Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-25
File number:	
SOL-23935-21

Citation:	Hines v Law Rootes, 2022 CanLII 80817 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrshr>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-23935-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


UPPER UNIT, 6531
ASH STREET NIAGARA FALLS ON
  L2G2H4


 




Between:


Sharon Hines


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Heather Marie Law
Rootes


Tenant



 
 
 
Sharon Hines
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
Heather Marie Law Rootes (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of
the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant; and because the Tenant
or another occupant of the rental unit has committed an illegal act or has
carried out, or permitted someone to carry out an illegal trade, business or
occupation in the rental unit or the
residential complex. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the
Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on November 10, 2021.
 
The Landlord, the Landlord Representative F. Gomez, and the Tenant
attended the hearing.
 
At the hearing, the Landlord requested the consent of the Board
to withdraw their Form N5/L2 application.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
I
consent to the withdrawal of the Landlord’s Form N5/L2 application.
 
2.    
The Landlord’s
Form N6/L2 application is based on a Form N6 alleging the Tenant has committed
an illegal act in the residential complex.
 
3.    
Section 61(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the “Act”) allows a landlord to serve a notice of
termination for an illegal act committed or permitted by a tenant or another
occupant of the rental unit, so long as the illegal act takes place in the unit
or residential complex.




 
4.    
The Landlord’s
Form N6 alleges an illegal act occurred on July 9, 2021 when the Landlord was made aware that the Tenant was renting a room at the property without
the Landlord’s consent. The Landlord
claims this is a breach of the lease
agreement, the Act and the Criminal Code of Canada.
 
5.    
The Landlord
testified that upon confronting the new occupant at the residential complex,
she discovered that the Tenant had posted the rental unit on Facebook
marketplace and that the occupant now pays rent to the Tenant.
 
6.    
The Tenant denies
any unauthorized sublet or assignment of the rental unit, stating the occupant
is merely a roommate and that she continues to live at the rental unit.
 
7.    
Section 100 of the Act provides
as follows:
 
If a tenant transfers the occupancy of a rental unit to a person in a
manner other than by an assignment
authorized under section 95 or a
subletting authorized under section 97, the landlord may apply to the Board for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the
tenant and the person to whom occupancy of the rental unit was transferred.
 
8.    
I do not find
that there has been an assignment or sublet, as the Tenant continues to live at
the rental unit. The Landlord’s own
correspondence with the Tenant refers to the occupant as a “roommate”, and the
Landlord’s Form N5 alleges the Tenant is “renting a room”. The Act does not
prohibit roommates.
 
9.    
In the
alternative, even if there was an unauthorized assignment or sublet as
contemplated by section
100 of the Act, the Landlord
has not brought an A2 application to end the original tenancy and evict the unauthorized
occupant.
 
10. 
Here, the
Landlord is relying solely upon a contravention of section 61(1) and I find
this contravention does not rise to the level of an illegal act within the
meaning of s. 61 of the Act. As noted by the Board’s Interpretation
Guideline 9, the violation of a of federal, provincial or municipal law
must be serious enough to warrant eviction. The Guideline further states that
the seriousness of this ground for eviction is evidenced by the fact that a
tenant has no opportunity to avoid termination by rectifying the illegal act. I
see no reason to depart from this Guideline in this case.
 
11. 
Upon considering
all of the circumstances of this matter, I find that the Landlord had failed to establish that the Tenant has
committed an illegal act within the meaning of the Act.




 
 
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord's N5/L2 application is withdrawn.
 
2.    
The Landlord's N6/L2 application is dismissed.












January 25, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Peter Nicholson
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

