Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-18
File number:	
SOL-18596-20

Citation:	Labb Investments Inc v Meyers, 2022 CanLII 70564 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jr92z>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-18596-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


2, 83 ST. PAUL STREET
ST. CATHARINES ON L2R3M3


 




Between:


Labb Investments Inc


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Meredith Meyers


Tenant



 
 
 
Labb Investments Inc (the
'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Meredith
Meyers (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit
or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has substantially
interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest
of the Landlord or another tenant.
The Landlords also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained
in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by
videoconference on December 15, 2021.
 
The Landlord’s agent, Blendi
Shabani, and the Tenant attended
the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.   
At the beginning of the hearing,
I raised a preliminary issue with respect
to whether the application filed on behalf of the
Landlord was properly before the Board.
 
2.   
Although the Landlord’s agent, BS,
has written authorization from the Landlord to appear before the Board, the problem that arises here is that the application has not been signed
by the Landlord or someone authorized to do so under the Law Society Act.
 
3.    The Landlord’s agent, BS, testified that he was the
brother of the owner of Labb Investments Inc, LS. He confirmed
that the application was filed by Adriana Perkowska, their sister, who was neither
the Landlord nor a licensee under the Law Society Act.
 
4.   
After raising this issue,
I stood the hearing down so that BS could make arrangements for his brother to get a
hold of his brother to either submit an amended
application or to seek an adjournment if he was not able
to do so.
 
5.   
When I called the matter again,
the Landlord’s agent indicated that he was not able to get a hold of his brother. I sought
submissions from the Tenant.




File Number: SOL-18596-20
 
6.   
The Tenant submitted that the
Landlord’s application should be dismissed for being improperly filed. She then
proceeded to provide submissions of how she required additional time to prepare
for her defence since she just got back from her mother’s funeral, did not have a chance
to connect with the legal clinic or gather the evidence to refute the Landlord’s allegations.
 
7.    The Landlord did not object
to the Tenant’s request for a dismissal of the application.
 
8.    No further submissions were made by either party.
 
9.   
Section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’)
says:
 
(1)     An
application shall be filed with the Board
in the form approved by the
Board, shall be accompanied by the prescribed information and shall be signed
by the applicant.
 
(2)     An applicant may give written authorization to sign an application
to a person representing the
applicant under the authority of the Law Society Act and, if the
applicant does so, the Board may require
such representative to file a copy of the
authorization.
 
10. As a result, the application filed on behalf of the
Landlord does not meet the mandatory requirements of the Act and I believe the Board does not have the authority
to consider the claims set out in the Landlord’s
application.
 
11. This order contains
all of the reasons for the decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s application is dismissed.












January 18, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Sonia Anwar-Ali
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

