Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
SOL-23311-21

Citation:	Leonetti v Molnar, 2022 CanLII 49765 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpqjn>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-23311-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


REAR, 44 BALFOUR STREET BRANTFORD ON N3T1J4


 




Between:


Eduardo Leonetti


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Frank
Molnar


Tenant



 
 
 
Eduardo Leonetti
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Frank
Molnar (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit
or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully or
negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The Landlord has also applied
for an order requiring the Tenant to compensate
the Landlord for the damage; because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest of the Landlord or another
tenant; and because the number of persons
living in the unit on a continuing basis is more than permitted
by health, safety or housing standards.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 20, 2021.
Only the Landlord attended
the hearing. As of 11:12 a.m. the Tenant was not present or represented
although properly served with the notice of this hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
Based on the Landlord’s
uncontested evidence I find that the Tenant willfully or negligently caused
undue damage damaged
the rental unit and the residential complex.
I am therefore terminating this tenancy and ordering the Tenant to
compensate the Landlord for the damage.
 
2.    
The Landlord’s
application claims the Tenant substantially interfered with the Landlord or
another tenant’s reasonable enjoyment and/or lawful right, privilege or
interest, wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the rental unit and
that there are more people living in the unit than is permitted by health,
safety or housing standards. The application is based on one N5 notice of
termination. The N5 was served on the Tenant on July 19, 2021. The Landlord’s
N5 notice clearly notifies the Tenant that the Tenant failed to maintain the
rental unit and the complex in the ordinary state of cleanliness, and caused
undue damage to the rental unit as discovered during
inspections the Landlord
conducted in July 2021.




 
Overcrowding
 
3.    
Section 67 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’), states that a landlord may give a tenant notice of termination if the number of persons
occupying the rental
unit on a continuing basis results in the
contravention of health, safety or housing standards required by law.
 
4.    
The Landlord
provided no evidence
whatsoever that having
more than one person at the
rental unit contravened any health, safety or housing standards required by
law. I therefore dismiss this part of the Landlord’s application.
 
Substantial interference and undue damage
 
5.    
The Landlord testified
that he gave a 24-hour notice to enter the unit on July 6, 2021. He then entered the rental unit and found the unit to
be unclean and damaged. The Landlord
testified that the rental unit was completely re-done just before
the Tenant moved into the rental unit in August 2017. The
Landlord submitted photographic evidence to support his testimony.
 
Substantial interference
 
6.    
The Landlord
testified that the unit was very dirty
everywhere. Kitchen cabinets,
counters, washroom, and carpets were all stained well beyond what might
be caused by reasonable wear and tear over a 4-year tenancy. The Landlord’s
photographic evidence supports his testimony. I found his testimony to be
credible and reliable.
 
7.    
I find that the Tenant
substantially interfered with the Landlord’s lawful rights or privilege by failing
to maintain the rental unit in the state of ordinary cleanliness as required by the
Act. It is therefore unnecessary for me to address the other allegation of substantial
interference based on the Tenant’s alleged failure to maintain the backyard.
 
8.    
The Landlord testified
that his follow-up inspections showed little evidence that the Tenant attempted to restore the unit to the state
of ordinary cleanliness after receiving notice
of termination.
 
Undue damage
 
9.    
The Landlord testified
that the Tenant wilfully or negligently caused damage to a wall in the rental unit by
making a large 1.5 ft by 1.5
ft wide hole in it. This
hole according to the
Landlord must have been caused by the Tenant or another occupant or a guest of
the Tenant. The Landlord testified that this hole was repaired by the Tenant on
or before September 21, 2021 but this repair was poorly done and that the wall looked like cottage
cheese as a result. The Landlord testified that properly repairing the hole
would cost approximately $200-$300 in materials and labor.
 
10.  The Landlord testified
that the kitchen
tap is leaking. He testified
that the tap was in good
condition and that the leak must have been caused by application of force or
negligent use of the tap. The tap and sink were new when the Tenant moved into
the rental unit




 
and they had to
have been abused to come to the state they are currently in. The Landlord testified
that the tap can no longer be repaired and that the reasonable cost of
replacing the tap would be approximately $250.00.
 
11.  The Landlord testified that kitchen cabinets and
counters were damaged beyond repair by spills and leaks. Because
the Tenant failed
to properly clean the surfaces
and remove liquids in a
timely manner, the leaks and spills caused counters and cabinets to swell,
delaminate and get damaged through seams, thus making it impossible to repair
or otherwise bring them back into shape without the need to replace them. The
Landlord testified that the cost of replacing the counters would be approximately $600. The cost of
replacing damaged cupboards would be $30 per cupboard “face”.
 
12.  The Landlord testified that the carpet
in the rental unit was stained beyond
the possibility of cleaning. The carpet was smelly and covered in stains and spills, and the Landlord
did not believe it could be restored to a decent condition. The Landlord
testified that the carpet was new when the Tenant moved into the unit and that
the damage to it was well beyond normal wear and tear. The Landlord’s
photographic evidence supports this conclusion. The Landlord testified that the
cost of replacing the carpet would be approximately $1,100.
 
13.  The Landlord testified that the laminate
flooring, which was new when the Tenant
moved in, was dirty, scratched and damaged. The Landlord testified that
the damage and scratches could be addressed with a good cleaning at a cost of
some $200. I am not satisfied that laminate
floor requiring a thorough cleaning
is sufficient to find that the floor was unduly damaged by the Tenant.
 
14.  The Landlord testified that the Tenant
caused undue damage to the bathtub by breaking part of the plastic
casing around the bathtub. The Landlord pointed
out a crack in the bath
surround near the area where shampoo bottles are held. Landlord’s photographs
confirm that the casing
has a crack and the Landlord
testified that this crack could only have been
caused by application of significant force, whether intentionally or
negligently. This damage has to be repaired
pulling out the tub surround,
and redoing the drywall behind
it. The crack cannot be left or simply plastered over because water has
been leaking through this crack for an
unknown period of time and the
Landlord will have to investigate the area behind
the tub surrounding for mold or mildew and to repair
the drywall behind
it. The Landlord estimated the cost of this repair to be $1,200.00.
 
15.  The Landlord also testified that the toilet
is leaking. The Landlord did not provide sufficient detail or explanation to support a finding that the leak was caused by the Tenant
and did not simply happen for another reason. As a result I do not find that
the Landlord established that it is more likely than not that the Tenant caused
this damage.
 
16.  The Landlord testified
that the fridge has dents
the size of a baseball.
He testified that the
dents must have been caused by the Tenant as they were not present when the
Tenant moved into the unit. The fridge is still working but the dents are
visibly noticeable. The Landlord was not sure whether or how the dents could be repaired but estimated the cost of replacing the fridge at $650.




 
 
 
17.  Based on the Landlord’s uncontradicted evidence I find that it is more likely than not that the Tenant caused undue damage to the
rental unit by negligently or willfully damaging the bathtub, kitchen tap,
kitchen counters and cabinets, carpet flooring, and the drywall. This damage to
the unit is well beyond reasonable wear and tear. The only reasonable
explanation for this damage is that the Tenant either applied intentional force
or was negligent in applying force to the wall, the tap, and the bathtub.
Kitchen counters, cabinets, and carpet flooring were more likely than not
damaged by the Tenant negligently spilling liquids and then negligently
allowing these liquids to penetrate the surfaces and materials for a long
period of time instead of cleaning them in a timely manner.
 
18.  The Tenant had 7 days after receiving the
N5 notice to repair or replace the damaged items or to pay the Landlord $3,000
for the reasonable cost of repairing or replacing the damaged items. While the
Landlord did not conduct an inspection during the 7-day voiding period,
the Landlord observed
the same damage with no improvement, except
for the drywall, during a subsequent inspection on September 21, 2021.
The Landlord testified that the Tenant never paid the Landlord any amount
toward repairing or replacing damaged items.
 
19.  I find that it is more likely
than not that the Tenant
did not void the notice of termination during the voiding period. He
did not repair or replace damaged items and did not reimburse the Landlord for
the cost of doing so.
 
20.  I find that The Landlord will incur costs
of $3,000.00 to repair the damage or replace property that was damaged and
cannot be reasonably repaired. While the estimates provided by the Landlord at
the hearing added up to a somewhat higher amount, they were not supported by any independent documentary evidence like invoices or receipts. I therefore find the amount
of $3,000 claimed
in the application and indicated on the notice of termination to be the
appropriate amount to compensate the Landlord
for this damage.
 
21.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would be unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1) of
the Act. The damage caused by the Tenant is substantial and the Tenant did not
attend the hearing to request relief from eviction. The Landlord opposed any
relief from eviction and testified that other tenants have complained about the
Tenant for reasons unrelated to this application as well.
 
It
is ordered that:
 
1.    
The tenancy
between the Landlord and the Tenant
is terminated. The Tenant must move
out of the rental unit on or before January 16, 2022.
 
2.    
The Tenant
shall pay to the Landlord
$3,000.00, which represents the reasonable costs of repairing the damage and/or
replacing the damaged property.
 
3.    
The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost of filing the application.




 
4.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before January
16, 2022, the Tenant will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from January 17, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
5.    
If the unit is not vacated
on or before January 15, 2022, then starting January
17, 2022, the Landlord may
file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the
eviction may be enforced.
 
6.    
Upon receipt
of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after January 17, 2022.
 
 
January 5, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Vladimir
Nikitin
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part
of this order relating to the eviction
expires on July 17, 2022 if
the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

