Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-06
File number:	
SOL-19429-21

Citation:	Victoria Park Community Homes Inc. v Mooney, 2022 CanLII 51379 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpslf>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-19429-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


70, 80 GILCREST STREET HAMILTON ON L9C7L9


 




Between:


Victoria Park Community Homes Inc.


Landlord




 


and


 




 


Jessica
Mooney


Tenant



 
 
Victoria Park Community Homes Inc. (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and
evict Jessica Mooney (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the
rental unit or a person the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
seriously impaired the safety of any person. The Landlord also claimed
compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination
date.
 
This application was heard via video conference on July 21, 2021.
 
The Landlord’s legal representative, Sara Lange attended
the hearing. The Tenant
and the Tenant’s legal
representative, Michael Blashko attended the hearing.
 
The Landlord called as a witness:
Vlado Izmaragdi (VI), the Resident
Manager. The initials, LC refers to the Tenant’s friend, Lucas Couto.
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Landlord
served the Tenant
with a Notice to End Your Tenancy
for Causing Serious Problems in the Rental Unit or
Residential Complex (Form N7). The
allegations in the notice states: On
or about January 6, 2021,
a Facebook video of a visitor
or occupant of the Tenant,
was discovered. The video was taken in the basement of the Tenant’s unit and
shows LC in possession of multiple high-powered firearms, and several cases of
ammunition. LC is seen in the video showing
off the weapons and shooting towards the camera.
 
2.    
The issue to be determined by the Board is whether the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person the Tenant
permitted in the residential complex has seriously impaired the safety of any person and this behaviour occurred in the residential complex.
 
3.    
The residential complex has 70 units. The Tenant rents
a semi-detached, three bedroom townhouse.




 
4.    
The Landlord’s witness,
the Resident Manager, VI testified that he learned of this matter when he was
sent an email from another individual that showed ammunition and the weapons. VI stated that he has a photograph taken on October
2, 2020 of 5 rifles
lying on a carpet. VI also
stated that the photograph was uploaded on the Tenant’s boyfriend (LC’s)
account.
 
5.    
VI stated that on
January 5, 2021 he received a video, from the same individual that provided the
photographs of the rifles. The video shows the basement of the Tenant’s unit and LC showing
the ammunition and what appears to be assault
rifles. LC is shown
pointing the rifle at the camera.
 
6.    
VI testified that when
he saw the video he was scared. He believes that the weapons were real. The weapons
were AR 15 and M4 rifles and were similar
styles of rifles
that are used by the military and police.
 
7.    
VI attends
the residential complex,
5 days a week. VI stated that since February
2020 he has seen LC living at
the unit.
 
8.    
The Landlord
submitted into evidence
the photograph of the 5 rifles and the video.
 
9.    
During cross
examination VI acknowledged that he has never seen or examined the devices in the video. VI
also acknowledged that he did not see the
entire 23 minute video. When
asked if it is possible that the weapons in the video were fake, VI testified
that he was no expert,
but the weapons
in the video were real. VI also stated
that he grew up in a
war torn country and is familiar with AR 15 and M4 and the weapons in the video
were similar.
 
10.  VI testified that the police were contacted
about the weapons in the unit, and all the evidence was sent to the police.
The police were told about the content
of the video and were give
the name and account.
 
11.  VI confirmed that since the complaint to the police (7 months ago), he is
not aware of any
police investigation, but stated that these investigations are not done
overnight.
 
12.  VI stated that there have been no further videos,
and no incidents with firearms
in the unit.
 
13.  The Tenant testified that she learned about the matter
on or about January 1, 2021 when she received a message on Facebook
from another tenant, yelling and threatening her
that she would
be “kicked out because of LC”. She sent an email to the Landlord about this and the Landlord
told her there was no truth to this. She discussed other matters with the
Landlord. On January 13, 2021 she received
the Form N7 Notice of Termination. She had asked the Landlord to see the video after receiving the
Form N7, but only saw the video a week before the hearing.
 
14.  The Tenant testified
that she was in the basement at the time of the video.
She confirmed that she once dated LC,
but he is now a friend. LC no longer has access to her unit.




 
15.  The Tenant testified that the firearms are
air soft or bb guns, and Canadian Tire type of guns. The Tenant testified that
she would never allow real guns in her home. She purchased them on her credit card for LC; and LC paid for therm. She no longer
has them in her unit.
 
16.  The Tenant submitted
into evidence documents showing
that she purchased
air guns and BB rifle on June
18, 2020 from a company called Replica Airguns.
 
17.  Based on the evidence adduced at the
hearing, I find that the Landlord has not provided sufficient evidence to
establish that the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit, or a person
permitted in the residential complex by the Tenant has seriously impaired the
safety of other persons. I say this because, I was not satisfied by the Landlord’s evidence that the firearms shown in the video and the
photographs are real weapons. The Landlord’s witness, VI is not an expert in
firearms. The Landlord has never viewed the weapons in person and there was no
witness called to authenticate the weapons shown in the video or the
photograph. I preferred the evidence of the Tenant, including the documentary
evidence that the weapons are air rifles and bb guns; and are not real assault
rifles. It is clear that these weapons are made to look as realistic as
possible, but that does not make them real. I also considered that the Landlord
complained to the police, provided the police with all their evidence, and it
does not appear that the police have taken any action on this matter. It seems
to me, if there were imminent risk to safety,
the police would have taken immediate
action. In addition, there was no evidence before me that there have been
incidents involving firearms, air guns or bb guns at the unit or the
residential complex, and that anyone’s safety has been seriously impaired.
 
18.  Based on the above, the Landlord’s application shall be dismissed.
 
19.  The Landlord requested that if the eviction is denied that the Tenant’s
guest be banned from the residential complex. This
request is denied as the Board has dismissed this application. Moreover, there
has been no determination made that there has been a breach of the Act, that
warrants this request.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
 
January 6, 2022                                                                                   Date Issued                                                                       Debbie Mosaheb
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

