Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-01
File number:	
SOL-25834-21

Citation:	Bouvrie v Costiff, 2022 CanLII 87333 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2qh>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-25834-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


MAIN FLOOR,
57 PATRICIA STREET THOROLD ON L2V3V9


 




Between:


Jane Des
  Bouvrie


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Jodi Costiff
Stephanna Lynn Sapier


Tenants



 
 
 
Jane Des Bouvrie (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Jodi Costiff and Stephanna Lynn Sapier
(the 'Tenants')
 
This application was heard via video conference on January 12, 2022.
 
Only the Landlord and the Landlord’s Legal Representative Judith
Callender attended the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.     
For the reasons that follow, I find that the Landlord
in good faith
requires possession of the
rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation. The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenants will be
terminated.
 
2.     
The rental unit is currently a
large single family home that has been converted into two units, one unit on
the upper floor and the other unit on the main floor. The Landlord intends to convert the home back to its original
state of a single family home for her large family to live in. The Landlord
has served an N12 notice
on the tenant residing in the other unit of this property.
 
3.     
Along with the Landlord’s L2 application, an N12 notice
of termination, certificate of service, declaration and Schedule B were completed and
attached.
 
4.     
On September 23, 2021 the Landlord
served an N12 notice of termination on the Tenants. The N12 notice states that the
Landlord intends to move into the rental unit and occupy it for at least one
year. The N12 notice sought
possession of the rental unit for November 30, 2021.




 
5.     
Section 48.1 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) requires the Landlord to provide compensation to the Tenant
in an amount equal to one month’s
rent where an N12
notice is served. The Landlord
testified that she provided the Tenants’ with a compensation cheque on November 27, 2021 prior to the
termination date specified in the N12 notice of termination of November 30,
2021.
 
6.     
Section 72(1) of the Act states that the Board shall not make an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the tenant in an application under
section 69 based on,
 
(a)  
a
notice of termination given under section
48 on or after the day section
13 of the Rental
Fairness Act comes
into force, unless
the landlord has filed an affidavit
sworn by the person who personally requires the rental unit certifying that the
person in good faith requires the rental unit for his or her own personal use
for a period of at least one year; or
 
(b)  
a
notice of termination under section 49, unless the landlord has filed with the
Board an affidavit sworn by the person who personally requires the rental unit
certifying that the person in good faith requires the rental unit for his or
her own personal use.
 
7.     
Section 192.1 of the Act, states that where a provision of the Act requires an affidavit from a person with respect to a specified
statement or specified information, the Rules may,
 
(a)  
authorize the use of another document,
which may be unsworn, from that person with respect to that specified
statement or specified information; and
 
(b)  
require that the document
ma be used only if it is provided to the Board in
accordance with the Rules.
 
8.      The Landlord and Tenant Board’s
Rules of Procedures state at rule 1.5
that where the
Act requires an affidavit
respecting a specified statement or specified information, the Board will also
accept a signed and dated declaration containing the specified statement or specified information provided the declaration confirms the truth of the
information or statement and acknowledges that making a false declaration is an offense.
 
9.     
The Landlord provided a signed
declaration dated September 27, 2021 stating that she requires the rental unit for her own personal residential use for a period of at least one year as she and her husband require the
rental unit to accommodate her large family of four young children and one
nephew.
 
10.   The issue to be determined by the Board
is whether the Landlord has satisfied
the “good faith” requirement set out
in subsection 48(1) of the Act which provides:
 
A landlord may, by notice,
terminate a tenancy if the landlord in good faith requires possession of the rental
unit for the purpose of residential occupation for a period of at least one year by,
 
(a)  
the landlord;




 
….
 
11.   The onus is on the Landlord to establish that the Landlord
in good faith requires the rental
unit for the purpose of residential occupation.
 
12.   In Salter v. Beljinac, 2001 CanLii 40231 (ON SCDC),
the Divisional Court determined that a
Landlord satisfied the “good faith” requirement to terminate a tenancy where the person identified in the notice of
termination genuinely intends to occupy the rental unit for residential
purposes.
 
13.   In Fava v. Harrison, [2014] O.J. No. 3352 (Ont.
Div.Ct.), the Court determined that while the
motives of the Landlord are, per Salter, “largely irrelevant”, the Board can consider the conduct and motives of the Landlord to
draw inferences as to whether the Landlord desires, in good faith, to occupy
the property.
 
14.  
In this case, the evidence from
the Landlord was that she and her large family intend to move into the rental
unit and that was what prompted the Landlord to give notice to vacate the rental unit to the Tenants.
 
15.   The Landlord provided
clear, consistent and uncontested evidence
that she intends
to move into the rental unit for at least one year.
 
16.   On the basis of the uncontested evidence
before the Board, I have no reason to doubt the
truthfulness of the Landlord’s testimony or her good faith intentions. I am therefore satisfied on a balance
of probabilities that the Landlord, in good faith, requires possession of the rental unit for the
purpose of residential occupation for a minimum of one year.
 
17.   Pursuant to section 83 of the Act, I am
required to consider all of the circumstances in the case including both parties’ situations to determine if it would be appropriate to grant relief.
 
18.   The Tenants did not attend
the hearing to provide evidence
regarding their circumstances. The Landlord testified that she is unaware of any circumstances of the Tenants that would
cause me to deny eviction of the Tenants. The Landlord and her family are
currently residing in a semi-detached home with this rental property being 5-7
minutes away so her children would not have to change schools. The Landlord stated that she believed the
Tenant has two children.
 
19.   I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances
in accordance with section 83(2) of the Act and
find that it would be unfair to grant relief
from eviction pursuant
to subsection 83(1) of the Act.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
 
1.    
The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenants
is terminated, as of
April 30, 2022. The Tenants must move out of the rental unit on or before
April 30, 2022.




 
2.    
If the unit is not vacated
on or before April 30, 2022, then starting May 1, 2022 the
Landlord may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced.
 
3.    
Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after May 1, 2022. The Sheriff is requested to expedite the enforcement
of this order.
 
 
 
February 1, 2022 Date
Issued
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section
81 of the Act, the part of this order relating
to the eviction expires on November 1, 2022, if the order has not
been filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff)
that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.

