Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-08
File number:	
SOL-25831-21

Citation:	Davidson v Robinson, 2022 CanLII 94644 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsd42>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-25831-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


311
  TAMARAC STREET DUNNVILLE ON N1A2C6


 




Between:


Kenneth Davidson
  Anne Davidson


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Joanne Robinson
  Wesley Robinson


Tenants



 
 
 
Kenneth Davidson and Anne Davidson (the 'Landlords') applied
for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict Joanne Robinson and Wesley Robinson (the
'Tenants').
 
This application was heard via video conference on January 12, 2022.
The Landlords and the Tenants attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
 
1.     
For the reasons that follow, I find that the
Landlords in good faith require
possession of the rental unit for the purpose of
residential occupation for a period of at least one year. The tenancy between the Landlords and the
Tenants will be terminated.
 
2.     
The Tenants have resided
in the rental unit for eleven
years. It is a
three bedroom, 2 bathroom home.
 
3.     
Along with the Landlords’ L2 application, an N12 notice
of termination, certificate of service, declaration and Schedule B were completed and
attached.
 
4.     
On September 1, 2021 the Landlords
served an N12 notice of termination on the Tenants. The N12 notice states that the
Landlords intend to move into the rental unit and occupy it for at least one
year. The N12 notice sought
possession of the rental unit for November 14, 2021.
 
5.     
Section 48.1 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) requires the Landlords to provide compensation to the Tenants in
an amount equal to one month’s rent where an




 
N12 notice is served.
The Landlords testified that they paid compensation to the
Tenants via registered mail on November 4, 2021.
 
6.     
Section 72(1) of the Act states that the Board shall not make an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the tenant in an application under
section 69 based on,
 
(a)  
a
notice of termination given under section
48 on or after the day section
13 of the Rental
Fairness Act comes into force, unless
the landlord has filed an affidavit
sworn by the person who personally requires the rental unit certifying that the
person in good faith requires the rental unit for his or her own personal use
for a period of at least one year; or
 
(b)  
a
notice of termination under section 49, unless the landlord has filed with the
Board an affidavit sworn by the person who personally requires the rental unit
certifying that the person in good faith requires the rental unit for his or
her own personal use.
 
7.     
Section 192.1 of the Act,
states that where a provision
of the Act requires an affidavit from a person with respect to a specified
statement or specified information, the Rules may,
 
(a)  
authorize the use of another document, which may be unsworn, from that person with respect to that specified
statement or specified information; and
 
(b)  
require that the document
may be used only if it is provided to the Board in
accordance with the Rules.
 
8.      The Landlord and Tenant Board’s
Rules of Procedures state at rule 1.5 that where the
Act requires an affidavit
respecting a specified statement or specified information, the Board will also
accept a signed and dated declaration containing the specified statement or specified information provided the declaration confirms the truth of the
information or statement and acknowledges that making a false declaration is an offense.
 
9.     
The Landlords provided a signed declaration dated September 24, 2021 stating
that they and their adult daughter
require the rental
unit for their own personal residential use for a period of at least one year.
 
10.  
The issue to be determined by the Board
is whether the Landlord has satisfied the “good
faith” requirement set out in subsection 48(1) of the Act which
provides:
 
A landlord may, by notice,
terminate a tenancy if the landlord in good faith requires possession of the rental
unit for the purpose of residential occupation for a period
of at least one year by,
 
(a)  
the landlord;
….
 
11.   The onus is on the Landlords to establish that the Landlords
in good faith require the rental
unit for the purpose of residential occupation.




 
 
 
12.  
In Salter v. Beljinac, 2001 CanLii 40231 (ON SCDC),
the Divisional Court determined that a
Landlord satisfied the “good faith” requirement to terminate a tenancy where the person identified in the notice of
termination genuinely intends to occupy the rental unit for residential
purposes.
 
13.   In Fava v. Harrison, [2014] O.J. No. 3352 (Ont.
Div.Ct.), the Court determined that while the
motives of the Landlord are, per Salter, “largely irrelevant”, the Board can consider the conduct and motives of the Landlord
to draw inferences as to whether the Landlord desires, in good faith, to occupy
the property.
 
14.   In this case, the evidence from the
Landlords was that they and their adult daughter
intend to move into the rental unit, their son and five grandchildren will
reside in the Landlords’ current home and that was what prompted
the Landlords to give notice
to vacate the rental
unit to the Tenants.
 
15.  
The Landlords state that their son’s martial situation changed in July 2021 so that he would
require a home to raise his 5 children. The
Landlords testified that their son would reside in their current residence as
it would be the least disruptive to their grandchildren and the Landlords would
reside in the rental unit. The home
their son and grandchildren would be residing
in is in close proximity to the house
their grandchildren’s mother
resides in as well.
In their declaration, the Landlords state that they want to assist in
alleviating the grandchildren’s stress as a result of their
family situation and this move would
achieve that.
 
16.   The Tenants are suspicious of the Landlords intent
because they had conversations with the Landlords in early 2021 regarding
selling the rental property to them which did not crystalize. Further,
the Landlords then had a real estate agent provide
a market appraisal in April, 2021. The Tenants also feel that the Landlords
have benefited due to improvements the Tenants made to the property and they
believe those improvements assisted in increasing the value of the property. Furthermore, the Tenants are quite
concerned about their health and having to find somewhere else to live during the COVID
pandemic.
 
17.   While I understand the Tenant’s skepticism, I
nonetheless find that, on a balance of probabilities, the Landlord does in good faith require
the unit for the purpose of residential
occupation. The Landlord
does not contest
that he originally considered
selling the rental unit but, as explained above, a
few months later, the Landlords’ son’s family situation had dramatically changed. It
is reasonable that family circumstances change over time and that
accommodations have to be made.
 
18.   On the basis of the evidence and submissions before
the Board, I am satisfied on a balance of probabilities that the Landlords, in good faith,
require possession of the rental unit for the purpose of residential
occupation for a minimum of one year.
 
19.   As I am satisfied that the Landlords genuinely intend to reside in the rental
unit, the next issue before me is whether it would
be unfair in all the circumstances to deny the Landlord’s application for
eviction. For the following reasons,
I find that it would not be unfair to grant relief to the Tenants in the form
of a delay of the eviction.




 
 
 
20.  
I
would note that the Tenants
have stated that they currently pay $985.00 per month in rent
and they have already been looking for alternative accommodations. They have hired a real estate
agent to assist them in their search and have put purchase offers on homes but have not been the successful bidder. The Tenants are also very concerned about
their health situation as one has a lung condition and the other has a
condition where their immune system is compromised. While the Landlords’ current living situation is a challenge with respect to accommodating the needs of their family, it is nonetheless, stable and I do not find that a delay of
this eviction would negatively impact their physical or psychological health.
 
21. 
After considering all of the disclosed
circumstances of the parties and in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006, I find that it would not be unfair to postpone the
eviction until April 30, 2022,
pursuant to subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
 
1.    
The tenancy between the Landlords and the Tenants
is terminated. The Tenants must move out of the rental unit on or
before April 30, 2022.
 
2.    
If the unit is not vacated on or
before April 30, 2022, then starting May 1, 2022 the Landlords may file this order with the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced.
 
3.    
Upon receipt of this order, the
Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of the unit to the Landlords on or after May 1, 2022. The Sheriff is requested to expedite the enforcement
of this order.
 
 
February 8, 2022
Date Issued
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section
81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires
on November 1, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this
date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial
jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.

