Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-18
File number:	
SOL-19479-21

Citation:	Cityhousing Hamilton Corporation v Stargratt, 2022 CanLII 70559 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jr931>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-19479-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


917, 226
REBECCA STREET HAMILTON ON
  L8R1C3


 




Between:


Cityhousing Hamilton Corporation


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Gordon Stargratt


Tenant



 
 
 
Cityhousing Hamilton Corporation
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
Gordon Stargratt (the 'Tenant')
because the Tenant, another occupant
of the rental unit or
someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has substantially
interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest
of the Landlord or another tenant.
This application was heard by
video conference on January 5,
2022.
 
Only the Landlord’s legal representative, S. Churcher, attended
the hearing. The Landlord’s
witnesses, L. Seaton and K. Beriault, also attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
 
1.     The Tenant did not attend
the hearing. I waited 20 minutes, and then
I proceeded to hear the matter
on an uncontested basis.
 
2.     The Landlord served the Tenant with two N5 notices of
termination, both concerned the behaviour of the Tenant. The Landlord alleges
that the Tenant and his guests have been
heard yelling and arguing in the hallways, being abusive to the Landlord’s
employees, carrying on inappropriately in the common areas, and failing to
control his dog.
 
3.     The Landlord submits
that the Tenant voided the first N5 notice of termination that was
issued on June 26, 2020.
 
4.    
The Landlord’s witness, L. Seaton
(LS), is the property manager for the Landlord. She said that the Landlord received
a number of complaints about the behaviour
of the Tenant and his guests. One
of the complaints relates to a guest of the Tenant being intoxicated and
yelling, and then becoming involved in an altercation on the seventh floor of
the residential complex. LS said that
the police were called.




 
5.    
LS said that she knows the person
yelling was a guest of the Tenant because she had
witnessed the interaction between them. She
said that the Tenant disclosed their relationship when she discussed it with
him. She said that when she mentioned
the incident to the Tenant, he told her to “f   k off”, and he told her that
she cannot tell him who he may have in his own unit. LS said that the Tenant has had many unauthorized guests in his unit.
 
6.     LS said that the residential complex is for seniors, and only seniors
are permitted to live
in the building, and they are only permitted to have seniors as occupants.
 
7.     LS said that in December, 2020, the Landlord
received many complaints about arguing,
yelling and loud noises in the hallway in the middle of the night.
 
8.    
LS said that on February 4, 2021, she was informed
about a guest of the Tenant propping open the main lobby door which is
a fire code violation as well as a violation of the security protocols of the
residential complex. LS said that she
herself witnessed this incident on the video footage from the security cameras.
 
9.     LS said that she was told by her maintenance employee
that he saw a woman guest of the Tenant smoking
in the lobby, which is against the rules of the building. She said that she observed this incident on video
footage.
 
10.  LS said that at the beginning of April, 2021, she
received complaints from other tenants about the Tenant staying in their units
and refusing to leave. She said that
the Tenant informed her that he had to stay in other
people’s units because
he had guests in his own
unit that would not leave.
 
11.  LS said that she left her position
as property manager
in July 2021.
 
12.  K. Beriault (KB) took on the job of property
manager after LS’ departure in July 2021. She said that she is familiar with
the Tenant.
 
13.  KB said that she has received a number of complaints
about the Tenant with regard to noise. KB said that in November, 2021, the Tenant informed the Landlord that his brother was going to stay with him for a
couple of weeks, which is in compliance with the seniors’ building policy. However, she said that the Tenant’s
brother moved into the rental unit permanently, which is against the rules for
the subsidized seniors’ unit.
 
14.  KB explained that the residential complex is a multi-unit building
of rent-geared-to-income
units for seniors. She said that the
Tenant is not permitted to move an extra, unqualified person into his unit
without requesting an amendment to his lease under the Housing Services Act. She said that he did not make such a
request.
 
15.  KB said that recently, in December, 2021, there were complaints about the Tenant making noise, and the Tenant having to be removed from
another tenant’s unit for smoking illegal substances.




 
16.  The Landlord submits that the Tenant should be
evicted. The Landlord’s legal
representative said that she was unable to find tenants who were willing to
testify at the hearing because they are all fearful of the Tenant and his
guests. She said that the Tenant’s
behaviour has caused extreme distress in the building, and the other residents
should not have to tolerate
screaming, yelling and lots of noise at all hours of the day and night. The Landlord submits that the Tenant has been abusive to the
Landlord’s employees, and his behaviour has had a negative impact on the
security of the building.
 
17.  The uncontested evidence
of the Landlord’s witnesses is that the Tenant has guests that cause disturbances in the
residential complex, and the constant yelling, screaming and noise affects the
peaceful enjoyment of the residents. The
uncontested evidence of the Landlord’s witnesses is that the Tenant’s guests
have adversely affected the security of the building, by wilfully leaving
security doors open, or by entering other residents’ units and refusing to
leave. The Landlord’s witnesses also
testified about the Tenant being verbally abusive, as well as openly and
wilfully flaunting the rules of the building.
 
18.  I find that the Landlord’s employees should not be
abused nor hampered in their duties by the Tenant.
Nor should the Tenant and his guests
be permitted to circumvent the fire
safety rules, or the rules for a subsidized seniors’ building. I find that Tenant has compromised the
safety of other residents because of his activities. The Tenant’s behaviour has not stopped, nor has it improved,
since he received the N5 notices of termination.
 
19.  I find, based on the above, that the Landlord has proved
on a balance of probabilities, that the Tenant,
another occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant.
 
20.  The Landlord’s witnesses said that the Tenant has lived in the rental unit since 2014, and it is a highly subsidized unit. The Tenant is a senior over 65 years old. Therefore, I find that it is appropriate
to give the Tenant a little more time to find an appropriate alternative accommodation.
 
21.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to postpone the eviction until February 28, 2022, pursuant
to subsection 83(1)(b)
of the Act.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The tenancy between
the Landlord and the Tenant
is terminated, as of
February 28, 2022. The Tenant must
move out of the rental unit on or before February 28, 2022.
 
2.     The Tenant shall
pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing
the application.
 
3.     If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord the full amount
owing on or before
February 28, 2022, the Tenant will
start to owe interest. This will be
simple interest calculated from March 1, 2022, at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.




 
4.    
If the unit is not vacated
on or before February 28, 2022, then starting
March 1, 2022, the Landlord may
file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the
eviction may be enforced.
 
5.     Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after March 1, 2022.
 
 
 
 
 
January 18, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
 
In accordance with section
81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires
on September 1, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this
date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial
jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.

