Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-04
File number:	
SOL-22528-21

Citation:	Lazic v Hunt, 2022 CanLII 49806 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpqjj>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-22528-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


5, 15 WESTINGHOUSE AVENUE HAMILON ON L8L6E4


 




Between:


Robert Lazic


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Kathryn
Hunt


Tenant



 
 
 
 
Robert Lazic (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Kathryn
Hunt (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully or
negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The Landlord has also applied
for an order requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlord for the damage;
because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant
permitted in the residential complex has wilfully caused undue damage to the
premises; because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person
the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has seriously impaired the
safety of any person. The Landlord
also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after
the termination date.
 
This application was heard by video conference on December 1, 2021.
 
The Landlord
and the Tenant
attended the hearing.
The Tenant spoke
to Tenant Duty Counsel
prior to the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Tenant has lived in the rental unit for three years. It was undisputed that her son or grandson has been an occupant of the
rental unit.
 
2.    
The Landlord served the
Tenant with an N7 notice of termination on June 14, 2021, because he alleges that there were three occasions when the Tenant
has tampered with the smoke detection system in the
rental unit.
 
3.    
The Landlord said that
he first noticed a problem with smoke detectors in the rental unit during a
routine fire inspection on November 21, 2020.
He said that there are two different
kinds of smoke
detectors; there is a hardwired one in the hallway, and a battery operated one in the bedrooms.




 
 
 
4.    
The Landlord said that
on November 21, 2020, he observed that the bedroom smoke detector was off the
wall, the battery removed, and it had been covered with a baseball cap. He said that the hard wired smoke
detector was removed
from the ceiling
and it was dangling from wires. He
said that the Tenant told him the ceiling, hard-wired smoke
detector had “fallen off”. He said that he repaired the smoke detectors
on that occasion.
 
5.    
The Landlord said that
he went over fire safety with the Tenant, and they examined together the safety manual
and operation of smoke detectors. He said that he constantly tries to create a “culture of
safety”.
 
6.    
The Landlord said that on
April 17, 2021, he went into the
rental unit to replace a smoke detector battery. He said that he found
evidence of dismantling of the smoke
detector in the rental unit. He said that the hard-wired smoke detector
was compromised in its functionality.
 
7.    
The Landlord said that
the Tenant texted him on June 10, 2021, to inform him that there was a low
battery signal in the smoke detector. He
said that the Tenant did not permit entrance right away, so he was unable to
enter the rental unit until June 12, 2021. He
said that when he entered
the rental unit, the smoke
detector had been ripped down from
the ceiling.
 
8.    
The Landlord
said that the hard-wired smoke detector in the hallway
had been completely removed, and he found two of
the smoke detectors on a table in the rental unit. He said that one of the bedroom smoke detectors had also been
removed. He said that he then
proceeded to repair the smoke detectors.
 
9.    
The Landlord said that the Tenant is well aware of his safety regulations, and they
have discussed it. He said that she
did not take responsibility for any of the occasions when the smoke detector
had been tampered with. He said that
on November 21, 2020, the Tenant told him the smoke detector had fallen from the wall on its own, and that on April
17, 2021, the Tenant acted as though it was not a serious issue.
 
10.  The Landlord said that when he served the
N7 notice of termination on the Tenant in June, 2021, she became belligerent and acted like everything was the Landlord’s fault.
 
11.  The Landlord said that he has no idea why the Tenant tampers with the smoke detectors.
He said that low battery signals are often caused because of frequent breaking
of the electrical connection. He also
said that he has observed tampering with the wires on annual inspections, and
evidence that the wires are aggressively pulled apart.
 
12.  The Landlord entered into evidence photos
from June 12, 2021, of the removed smoke detectors, and wires dangling. He also entered into evidence an invoice
from the electrician to repair
damage caused by tampering,
and to replace the smoke detector, for a total of $299.16.
 
13.  The Landlord said that the smoke detector
tampering affects other units as well, because it can cause electrical
connections to break in other units as they are all interconnected.




 
He said that he
has advised the Tenant that she is causing an impairment to safety, and she
refuses to take responsibility and replies that it is not her fault. The Landlord said that he finds most frustrating the fact that most of the problems
have resulted from finding
things by chance during an inspection rather than as a result of the Tenant
actively informing him.
 
14.  The Tenant said that she was trying
to hit the hush mode in November,
2020, and she is
too short to reach the ceiling. She
said that she used a rubber stick. The
Tenant also said that her son was living with her and he had removed the
battery from the smoke detector in the bedroom to play one of his games, She said that he put a hat on the smoke
detector, and she was angry with him and told him he could kill people.
 
15.  The Tenant said on April 17, 2021, she was using
a broom to hit the hush mode.
 
16.  The Tenant said that in June, 2021, she was
trying to stop the detector from going off, and fell of a chair, and everything came down with her on the floor. She said that she left
the smoke detectors on a table because she had to leave in a hurry that day.
 
17.  The Tenant said that she smokes, but she said that she normally goes outside to smoke.
She said that she only occasionally smokes in the rental unit, but it does not
cause the smoke detector to go off.
 
18.  The Tenant said that since June, 2021, she
has not had any problems with the smoke detectors. She said that she fully
understands it is dangerous to tamper with the smoke detector.
 
19.  The Tenant said that her rent is $1,001.00. She said that she pays $650.00 herself
and the rest is paid by housing. She
said that her income is $1,293.00 per month from ODSP.
 
20.  The Tenant would like to remain in the
rental unit. She said that she has
looked for alternative units, but she is unable to afford anything.
She said that she is willing to pay
the electrician bill. She submits
that she seriously hurt herself in June, 2021.
She submits that she will never again touch a smoke detector.
 
21.  The Landlord submits that the Tenant
deliberately tampered with the smoke detectors, and that it is impossible for the damage
that he observed
to be caused by accident.
He submits that it happened on three separate occasions, and that it is
evident that the Tenant does not care about safety in the building.
 
22.  The Landlord submits that, as a result of
the Tenant’s actions, he has been found in violation of electrical wiring codes, and it has compromised, or could compromise, his ability to obtain insurance.




 
Reasons and Analysis:
 
23.  Section 66 of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) authorizes a landlord to serve a notice of termination if an act or
omission of the tenant seriously impairs or has seriously impaired the safety of
another person, and the act or omission occurs in the residential complex.
 
24.  It was undisputed that tampering with fire detectors, or removing electrical connections from hard wired smoke detectors, is a danger that
can lead to a serious impairment to safety in the building.
 
25.  The Landlord alleges that the Tenant is
aware of the threat to safety that tampering with the smoke detectors can cause, and that she has nevertheless, purposely tampered with the detectors on at least three
occasions within the last year. He
said that he has purposely discussed safety with her, and that she is either
unable or unwilling to follow the fire safety rules in the building.
 
26.  The Tenant said that all the occasions of
the smoke detectors being removed or damaged
was the result
of accident, or her son or grandson.
She said that she is aware
of the safety implications of tampering with the smoke detectors.
 
27.  The Tenant admits that she smokes, and that
she has smoked in the rental unit. She
also admitted that her son or grandson
has tampered with the smoke
detectors, but she told him it was wrong.
 
28.  I find that the evidence
proves, on a balance of probabilities, that the Tenant
was wilfully unconcerned with
the safety implications of her actions. The
photos of the Landlord showed that the smoke detectors had been tampered with
in a way that was not merely accidental. There
were wires dangling from the ceiling, and the Landlord described tampering that
was very deliberate. If the smoke
detectors had been removed or interfered with on only one occasion, then it
could possibly have been accidental. However, the smoke detectors were
interfered with in a very deliberate way only a few months after the first time
in November, 2020, and then even fewer months after the April, 2021, incident,
in June, 2021.
 
29.  I find that the evidence proves, on a
balance of probabilities, that the Tenant finds the smoke detectors
go off inconveniently, perhaps when she, or any of her relatives, want to smoke in the
unit.
 
30.  The Landlord described his extreme
vigilance about fire safety in the building.
It is, indeed, one of his primary responsibilities as a Landlord to
ensure that the residential complex is up to code with respect to all
electrical and fire regulations, and that he can ensure that his building
is safe for all residents. The Landlord was also very concerned
about the insurance implications of being found in violation of electrical
wiring codes.
 
31.  The Landlord was further concerned because
on at least a couple of occasions, he has only
discovered smoke detector
issues by chance,
and not because the Tenant informed
him about them.




 
 
 
32.  Although the Landlord has not described any
further incidents since June, 2021, I find
that it is unpredictable when another incident
could happen that could seriously impair the safety of
the building. The Tenant did not take
responsibility for her actions to the Landlord, and she maintained that none of
the incidents were her fault. She
repeated at the hearing that the incidents described by the Landlord were
either accidental, or they were caused by someone else. This behaviour puts into question whether the Tenant fully
understands the implications of her actions, and their threat to safety.
 
33.  Based on the above, I find that the Tenant,
an occupant of the rental unit, or a person permitted in the residential
complex by the Tenant has wilfully caused undue damage to the rental unit or
the residential complex by tampering with smoke detectors on a repeated basis, and thereby
obliging the Landlord
to repair or replace them to ensure
that they are properly installed and in working order.
 
34.  The Landlord has incurred costs of $299.16
to repair the damage
and/or replace property that was damaged and cannot be
reasonably repaired.
 
35.  The damage caused
is greater than what is required to give a notice of termination
pursuant to clause 63(1)(a) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act').
 
36.  By tampering with smoke detectors, and
repeatedly damaging them beyond repair, the Tenant, another occupant of the
rental unit, or a person permitted in the residential complex by the Tenant has seriously
impaired the safety of other persons and this act or
omission occurred in the residential complex.
 
37.  The Landlord collected
a rent deposit of $1,001.00
from the Tenant and this deposit is still
being held by the Landlord.
 
38.  Interest
on the rent deposit is owing to the Tenant for the period from January 1, 2021 to June 25, 2021.
 
39.  The Tenant said that she is now aware of
how dangerous it is to tamper with smoke detectors, and she will never do it
again. However, I find that her lack
of concern and vigilance after repeated smoke
detector incidents, the frequency of the
serious incidents, and the Tenant’s failure to take responsibility for what
happened, prove, on a balance of probabilities, that a conditional order would not be appropriate in this matter.
It is unclear that the Tenant is fully aware of the importance of fire
safety for the building. The Landlord is concerned about
his insurance coverage and safety of all the residents in the
building, and it is prejudicial for the Landlord for the tenancy to continue.
 
40.  I have considered all of the disclosed
circumstances above in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the
'Act'), and find that it would
be unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the
Act. However, given the Tenant’s
financial circumstances, I find that it would not be unfair to postpone the
eviction for a few weeks in order to permit the Tenant to find an alternative
place to live.




 
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The tenancy
between the Landlord
and the Tenant
is terminated, as of
February 28, 2022. The Tenant must
move out of the rental unit on or before February 28, 2022.
 
2.    
The Tenant shall pay to the Landlord $299.16,
which represents the reasonable costs of
repairing the damage and/or replacing the damaged property.
 
3.    
If the Tenant fails to
move out by February 28, 2022, the Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord $32.91
per day for compensation for the use of the unit from March 1, 2022 to the date the Tenant moves out of the
unit.
 
4.    
The Tenant
shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing the application.
 
5.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before
February 28, 2022, the Tenant will
start to owe interest. This will be
simple interest calculated from March 1, 2022, at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
6.    
If the unit is not vacated
on or before February 28, 2022, then starting March 1, 2022, the Landlord may file this order with the
Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced.
 
7.    
Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after February 28, 2022.
 
 
January 4, 2022 Date Issued
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires
on September 1, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this
date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial
jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.

