Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-07
File number:	
SOL-25113-21

Citation:	Cityhousing Hamilton Corporation v Rogers, 2022 CanLII 51384 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpslz>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-25113-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


14, 700 STONECHURCH ROAD W HAMILTON ON
  L9B2M8


 




Between:


Cityhousing Hamilton Corporation


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Tanya
Lee Rogers


Tenant



 
 
 
Cityhousing
Hamilton Corporation (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the
tenancy and evict Tanya Lee Rogers (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential
complex has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful
right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant; and because
the Tenant or another occupant
of the rental unit has committed an illegal act or has carried out, or permitted someone to
carry out an illegal trade, business or occupation in the rental unit or the residential complex. ; because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person the
Tenant permitted in the residential complex has seriously impaired the safety
of any personThe Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant
remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application
was heard by videoconference on October 29, 2021. The Landlord’s Agent, Mary Tullo and the Landlord’s Representative, Katherine Howlett,
attended the hearing.
As of 11:56 a.m. the Tenant
was not present or represented at the hearing
although properly served with notice of this hearing as it
appears from the Certificate of Service.
 
Grayling Stevens
(G.S.) attended the hearing as a witness
for the Landlord.
 
 
Determinations:
 
 
1.    
The application is based on two
Notices of Termination (forms N6 and N7) served on the Tenant on September 2, 2021 with a
termination date of September 30, 2021 because the Tenant or an occupant of the
Tenant's rental unit committed an illegal act in the residential complex and
the Tenant or another occupant of the
rental unit a person permitted in the residential complex by the Tenant seriously impaired the safety of other
persons and this act or omission occurred in the residential complex by
engaging in a fight and stabbing
another person. The notices were given pursuant
to secs. 61 and 66 of
the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).




 
 
 
2.    
The residential complex
is described as a 30 unit complex owned an managed by the City of Hamilton. The Tenant resides
in unit 14 with her four children
ages 23, 19, 17 and
14. The Tenant has resided in the rental unit since 2013.
 
3.    
The evidence
of the Landlord is undisputed and accepted as a factual
accounting of the events giving rise to this
application.
 
4.    
Ms. Tullo, is the
Property Manager. She describes a
fight that took place on the residential complex between the Tenant’s 17 year
old daughter, Gemma, and another unidentified female. “Gemma” resides in the rental unit with the Tenant. During the
altercation Gemma stabbed the other female,
then fled the area. She was
later located by police “SWAT” and police dogs in the residential complex. Gemma was charged by police and was
subsequently released and is currently living at the residential unit.                                                                                                                                        Ms.
Tullo received complaints from several tenants
regarding the fight
and subsequent police activity. Ms. Tullo reports that other tenants
have expressed a fear of the Tenant and her family.
 
5.    
Ms. Tullo reports that
when she served the Tenant with the notices of termination the Tenant told her that it wasn’t
their fault and ”they started
it so Gemma took the knife and stabbed her real good.”
 
6.    
G.S. testified
that he is a neighbour of the Tenant.
He heard a screaming and yelling in the
yard in the early evening of August 26, 2021 and observed two females directly
outside the Tenant’s unit fighting. They were surrounded by several others,
including her two brothers,
who were “cheering them on.” When
they heard the police sirens they all ran. G.S.
identified one of the females (the one with the knife) as the Tenant’s daughter
and two of the observers as the Tenant’s sons.
 
7.    
G.S. stated that he is
fearful of getting his mail or going to a nearby store because of what the
Tenant or her children might do. He stated he was previously assaulted and threatened by the Tenant, and the
Tenant’s dogs attacked his dog and
his wife. He is concerned about retribution by the Tenants.
He also stated other tenants
are afraid of the Tenant and her children because of
past behaviours.
 
8.    
G.S. read a news
article into the record from the Hamilton Spectator, which described a teen
girl as being charged with assault with a weapon after an altercation which
resulted in the hospitalization of one person. Based on the information in the news
article and his own observations of the event,
G.S. has identified the Tenant’s daughter, Gemma, as the person charged with the weapons
offence.
 
9.    
S. 61 (1) of the Act states, “A landlord may give a tenant a notice of termination of the
tenancy if the tenant or another occupant of the rental unit commits and
illegal act or carries on an illegal trade, business or occupation or permits a
person to do so in the rental unit or the residential complex.”




 
10.  Regardless of the instigator of the fight,
I find that the use of the knife as a means to settle the fight, coupled
with the arrest and charges
laid by the police, and the content
of the news article is sufficient evidence to persuade me that an
occupant of the Tenant’s unit committed an illegal act, contrary to the
Criminal Code of Canada.
 
11.  S. 66 (1) of the Act states, “ A landlord
may give a tenant notice of termination of the tenancy if an act or omission
of the tenant, another occupant of the rental
unit or a person
permitted in the residential complex by the tenant seriously impairs or has
seriously impaired the safety of any person and the act or omission occurs in
the residential complex.”
 
12.   I find the presence
of the brothers cheering on the Tenant’s
daughter, and the fight itself involving a knife used by the
daughter shows a blatant disregard for the safety of others and seriously
impaired the safety
of others, and that the actions of the Tenant’s
daughter occurred on the residential complex.
 
13. 
I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would be
unfair to grant relief from eviction
pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the Act.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
 
1.    
The tenancy
between the Landlord
and the Tenant is terminated, as of January 12, 2022.
The Tenant must move out of the rental unit on or before January 12, 2022.
 
2.    
The Tenant
shall pay to the Landlord
$3,300.66 (less any payments
made to the Landlord
after October 1, 2021), which represents compensation for the use of the unit
from October 1, 2021 to January 7, 2022.
 
3.    
The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord
$33.34 per day for compensation for the use of
the unit from January 8, 2022 to the date the Tenant moves out of the unit.
 
4.    
The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
5.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before January
12, 2022, the Tenant will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from January 13, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
6.    
If the unit is not vacated
on or before January 12, 2022, then starting January
13, 2022, the Landlord may
file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the
eviction may be enforced.




 
7.    
Upon receipt of this
order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after January 13, 2022. The Sheriff is requested to expedite the enforcement
of this order.
 
 








 
 
Dawn King




 


January 7, 2022 Date
Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction
expires on July 13, 2022 if
the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

