Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-06
File number:	
SOL-22670-21

Citation:	Persad v, 2022 CanLII 51509 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpslh>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-22670-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


9, 139 STANLEY
STREET BRANTFORD ON N3S6T9


 




Between:


Shanta Persad


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Jim Ioannou Mary Ioannou


Tenants



 
 
 
Shanta Persad
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Jim
Ioannou and Mary Ioannou (the 'Tenants') because the Landlord
requires possession of the rental unit for the purpose of
residential occupation. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the
Tenants remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by way of video conference on December 15, 2021. The Landlord’s
legal representative Wenda
Allicock, the Tenants
and the Tenant’s
legal representative Michael Dow attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s
application is based on an N12 notice served to the Tenants on June 17,2021 with a termination date of August 31, 2021. The notice states that the Landlord intends to move into the rental
unit for a period of at least one-year.
 
Preliminary request:
 
2.    
The Tenant’s
legal representative made following preliminary requests to have the
application dismissed without hearing the merits of the matter
 
3.    
The Tenant’s legal
representative argued that the Landlord listed on the N12 notice and the L2
application is not the actual Landlord or owner of the property. The Tenant’s representative submitted
into evidence a copy of the Lease agreement which shows Carl Persaud as the sole Landlord (TT
exhibit #1). The Tenant’s
representative also entered into evidence a copy of the Ontario Land Registry
dated July 27, 2021 showing that
only Carl Persaud is the lawful owner of the rental property (TT exhibit #2).




 
 
 
4.    
The Tenant’s second
preliminary request was that the Landlord’s N12 notice only listed two Tenants
on the notice. The Tenants argued
that as per the lease agreement there are four adult Tenants and that Eric Ioannou and Nthan Ioannou
were not listed
or served with the N12 notice
of termination.
 
5.    
The Landlord’s legal
representative argued that Shanta Persaud is the lawful owner of the rental
property as of November 30, 2021 when her Father Carl transferred ownership of the property to her. The Landlord entered into evidence a copy of the Land Transfer
Registrar (LL exhibit #1).
 
6.    
The Landlord also
argues that Ms. Persaud has been communicating with the Tenants, collecting
rent and managing the rental property over the last few years. The Landlord
entered into evidence text messages
showing that Ms. Persaud
has confirmed receipt
of rent payment from the Tenants and a text message advising the Tenants
that their August 2021 rent would be waived in consideration of section 48.1
compensation under the Act.
 
7.    
The Landlord’s legal representative had no argument
as to why only 2 of the 4 Tenants were named and served with the
N12 notice.
 
Analysis:
 
8.    
Section 2 of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the Act) defines a Landlord as follows:
“landlord” includes,
(a)    
the owner of a rental unit or any other
person who permits occupancy of a rental
unit, other than a tenant who occupies a rental unit in a residential
complex and who permits another person to also occupy the unit or any part of
the unit,
 
(b)    
the heirs,
assigns, personal representatives and successors in title of a person referred to in clause (a), and
 
(c)    
a person,
other than a tenant occupying
a rental unit in a residential complex,
who is entitled to possession of the residential complex
and who attempts to enforce any of
the rights of a landlord under a tenancy agreement or this Act, including the
right to collect rent;
 
9.    
It is clear by the
wording of the Act that the definition of a Landlord is a broad term and
includes more than just the owner of the rental property. In this case, it is clear that Shanta Persaud
has been in communication with the Tenants,
collecting rent payments, issuing notices of termination
and managing the property on behalf of her father.
 
10.  Based on the evidence before the Board, we
find that Shanta Persaud meets the definition
of a Landlord and as such, had a right to serve the Tenants
with a notice of termination.




 
 
 
11.  Ms. Persaud is the daughter
of the Carl Persaud, the named the Landlord on lease and has been assisting her father over
the last few years in managing the rental unit. This includes collecting rent, serving notices to the Tenants
and communicating with the
Tenants on a monthly
basis. Further, we accept the evidence provided
by the Landlord’s legal representative that Mr. Persaud has
transferred ownership of the property to Ms.
Persaud as on November
30, 2021.
 
12.  Based on the evidence before the Board we
are satisfied that there are four Tenants residing in the rental
unit. Eric Ioannou
and Nthan Ioannou are Tenants as listed on the lease agreement and both Tenants are
still in possession of the rental unit.
 
13. 
Pursuant
to section 48(1) of the Act, the Landlord must give each Tenant an N12 notice
of termination. Further,
the Landlord is not entitled
to file this application under section 69 of the Act without first serving the
Tenants with the notice of termination.
 
14. 
The Landlord’s N12 notice and certificate of service
clearly indicate that only two of the four Tenants were served with the N12 notice.
By not naming Eric Ioannou and
Nthan Ioannou as a Tenants or serving them an N12 notice of termination, the
Landlord has compromised this Tenant’s
ability to know of the cause of action and be able to defend against it. Therefore, the
Landlord’s application must be dismissed.
 
15.  This order contains
all of the reasons for my decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
 
1.    The Landlord’s application is dismissed
without prejudice.
 
 
 
January 6, 2022                                                                                                                                                        Date Issued                                                                      Fabio Quattrociocchi
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
January 6, 2022                                                                                 Date Issued                                                                      Inderdeep Padda
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
 
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

