Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-08
File number:	
SOL-25020-21

Citation:	Macdonald v Mason, 2022 CanLII 94646 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsd1r>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-25020-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


A,
  8 BIG PINE PLACE BRANTFORD ON N3R6T6


 




Between:


Robin Macdonald
  Rose Macdonald


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Mary Mason Terrence
Demers


Tenants



 
 
 
Robin Macdonald and Rose
Macdonald (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and
evict Mary Mason and Terrence Demers (the 'Tenants') because they or another occupant
of the rental unit have committed an illegal act or have carried out, or
permitted someone to carry out an illegal trade,
business or occupation in the rental
unit or the residential
complex. The Landlords also claimed compensation for each day the Tenants
remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard via video conference on January 5, 2022.
 
The Landlord Rose MacDonald (‘R.M.’), the Landlord’s Legal Representative Jackie Struthers
and the Tenant Terrence Demers (‘T.D.’) attended the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Landlords’ application is based on a N6 notice of termination given under section
61 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the “Act”)
served on August 3, 2021 with a termination
date of August 31, 2021,
alleging that the Tenants have committed an
illegal act or is carrying on an illegal business at the residential complex.
 
2.     The residential complex is a four-plex, there are two
units on the bottom level and two units on the upper level and every
unit has their
own basement which
is unfinished. Every unit is
occupied by tenants. The Tenants
commenced their tenancy on May 1, 2018.
 
3.     The Landlords allege
that they performed
an inspection of the rental unit on July 30, 2021 at which time they observed two
tents in the basement which held approximately 15 marihuana plants. There was also a large fan, a bucket of
water and electrical components in the tents. R.M. testified that it was quite
hot and humid in the room.




 
4.    
R.M. testified that the Tenants
are illegally growing an excessive number of cannabis plants in the basement
of their rental
unit. R.M. presented
photographs which she claims
show more than the legally permitted four cannabis plants.
 
5.     The Landlords contacted the police to inform
them of their observations
and the police contacted the Tenants.
 
6.     R.M. testified that she is very concerned about the production of marihuana in the rental unit as there has been no
inspection by a licenced electrician, there was no outdoor ventilation at the
time of the inspection and the Landlords’ property insurance will now increase
in cost. R.M. is further concerned
about the impact this would have if she wanted to sell the property in the
future.
 
7.    
R.M. stated that at no time did
the Tenant indicate that he held a Cannabis for Medical Purposes Registration – Personal Production but conveniently produced
one to the Board that became
effective September 7, 2021.
 
8.     T.D. concedes that he is growing cannabis plants in
the basement of the rental unit but that he obtained
a medical licence
issued by the Health Canada in 2019 which allows
him to grow more than the legal limit of four cannabis plants. T.D.
testified that he grows cannabis for medical purposes as he suffers from
serious medical conditions.
 
9.     The validity of the T.D.’s Cannabis for Medical
Purposes Registration - Personal Production
issued September 7, 2021 was not contested by the Landlord. The issue at the hearing was whether T.D.’s permit
to grow cannabis was valid at the time of the Landlords’ observation and
subsequent notice to terminate.
 
10.  If T.D. was not legally
authorized to produce
marihuana/cannabis in the rental unit, the
Landlords contend that the Tenants have committed an illegal act involving the
production of more than four cannabis plants in the rental unit.
 
11.  T.D. submitted a copy of a Cannabis for Medical
Purposes Registration - Personal Production at the hearing which states an
effective date of September 7, 2021. The
production site listed
on this licence is the rental unit and the registration expires
one year later on September
7, 2022. This registration states: “You are now registered with Health Canada
under the Cannabis Regulations” and
“be prepared to show this
certificate to law enforcement upon request”.
 
12.  This registration produced at the hearing however does
not state that T.D. held a Cannabis for Medical Purposes Registration –
Personal Production at the time of the inspection on July 30, 2021. However,
T.D. testified that he did possess a licence at that time but that he had thrown it out
in the garbage.
 
13.  T.D. stated that he never told law enforcement or the
Landlord that he had a medical exemption to produce
cannabis because he was never asked. T.D. also never told the
Landlord about a Cannabis for Medical Purposes
Registration – Personal Production at the time of
service of the N6 notice
to terminate and only provided
a copy of his current registration at the hearing.




 
 
 
14.  An Occurrence Report
dated August 2, 2021 from the Brantford Police Service
states that an officer spoke to the
Tenants and that the Tenants “had committed to removing the items” and that the
Tenants were advised “that another notice would be issued and that
the fire department may attend so
it’s in best interest to remove the apparatus”.                                                                                                                        There was no mention that the Tenants had
reported to law enforcement they were in possession of a Cannabis for Medical
Purposes Registration – Personal Production.
 
15.  I draw a negative inference from the occupant’s
failure to produce a Cannabis for Medical Purposes Registration – Personal Production
to grow cannabis at the hearing.
 
16.  Based on the evidence and submissions at the hearing,
and on a balance of probabilities,
I find that the Tenants’ production of cannabis in the rental unit constitutes
an illegal act within the meaning of section 61 of the Act. I say this because the evidence from T.D.
is that he did not advise either the Landlord or law enforcement that he had a
licence which contravenes common sense. One
would think that if the Tenants did in fact have a valid registration to
produce cannabis, at the time in question, they would have immediately informed
law enforcement or the Landlord to avoid this entire matter. Further, when asked if the Tenant could have contacted
Health Canada to provide confirmation that he had a licence at the time of the incident, the Tenant advised
that he could have but he did not.
Furthermore, if the Tenant did have a valid licence, it does not make
sense that he would tell the police that he would remove the items as stated in
the police occurrence report. Finally,
despite having been served with the N6 notice of termination and having small
children residing in the rental unit, the Tenant still did not advise that he
had a Cannabis for Medical Purposes Registration – Personal Production to avoid
a possible termination of tenancy.
 
Section 83 Relief
 
17.  Unlike other sections
of the Act, that permit
a landlord to terminate a tenancy for cause,
section 61 contains no curative provision and does not contain a provision
allowing the tenant to void the notice by remedying the illegal act or
discontinuing any illegal activity. As a
result of this inability to void the
notice and save the tenancy, the Ontario
Court of Appeal has held that to justify
the termination of a tenancy under subsection 61, the
illegal act must be serious. Trivial
illegality does not warrant termination.
 
18.  To assess whether
termination is warranted
in this case, one must consider the effect of the
Tenants’ illegal act on the building and its other
residents. Campbell, J. summarized
this test in Swansea Village Cooperative Inc. v. Balcerzak:
 
Unless the offence
has the potential to affect
the character of the premises
or to disturb the reasonable enjoyment of the landlord or other tenants,
the landlord in my view does
not have the right to evict.
 
19.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief
from eviction subject to the
condition(s) set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1)
of the Act for the reasons that follow.




 
 
 
20.  The Landlords entered the rental unit on July 30,
2021. Although they took several
photographs of the Tenants’ production site, they did not submit any evidence
that the Tenants’ marijuana production had caused any damage to the rental
unit, structurally or otherwise. Similarly, although
they had reasonable concerns that the Tenants’ use of an extension cords and other electrical
components that could represent an electrical hazard, the Landlords submitted
no evidence to suggest that the Tenants’ use of these items posed any actual
danger to the residential complex.
 
21.  More importantly, there was no indication on the
evidence that the Tenants were trafficking any of the marijuana grown in
the unit or that they were
stealing electricity to power the equipment used in
the production of the cannabis
plants. As well, there was no evidence that the Tenants’
activities in any way interfered with the other tenants’ reasonable enjoyment
of the residential complex.
 
22.  Further, there was no evidence of any criminal charges
laid in relation to the Tenants’ production of cannabis in the rental unit and
in fact T.D. did receive a Cannabis for Medical Purposes Registration
– Personal Production effective September 7, 2021, just 39 days after the inspection and 35
days after receipt of the N6 notice.
 
23.  T.D. testified
that he and his partner
have two small children,
that he has been looking
for another place to live but has
experienced difficulties due to the COVID pandemic
and that he would require
accommodation that has a substantial amount of storage.
 
24.  Based on the above,
I find that to evict the Tenants from their residence when T.D. now
has a valid Cannabis for Medical Purposes Registration – Personal Production
would lead to a manifestly unjust result. Given
that T.D. and his health practitioner(s) would have submitted the required
documentation to Health Canada for the processing of the Registration some time
prior to the N6 notice being served, it
is conceivable that at the time of this event, T.D.’s Registration was already
being processed as the Registration was issued effective September 7, 2021.
 
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord’s application to terminate the tenancy is denied, subject
to the following conditions.
 
2.     For the duration
of the tenancy, the Tenants
shall ensure they fully abide by
the terms set out in any Cannabis for Medical Purposes Registration –
Personal Production that is issued to them.
 
3.     For the duration
of the tenancy, the Tenants
shall permit the Landlord
to enter the rental unit
pursuant to a valid notice of entry served pursuant to section 27 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006.
 
4.     If the Tenants
fail to comply
with any of the conditions contained in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, within a twelve month period
commencing February 8, 2022, the Landlord may




 
apply under section 78 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 within 30 days of the breach, without notice to the Tenants,
for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting
the Tenants.
 
5.    
The Tenants shall also pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost of filing this application.
 
6.     If the Tenants
do not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before March 8, 2022, they will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated
from March 9, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
 
 
February 8, 2022
Date Issued
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81
of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires on August 20, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

