Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-08
File number:	
SOL-23826-21

Citation:	Jia v De Oliveira, 2022 CanLII 94603 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsd1p>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-23826-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


3209
  BRONTE ROAD OAKVILLE ON L6M4J3


 




Between:


Jingping Jia
  Ran Zhou


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Fatima M De Oliveira
  Pierre Horak
Tyler Jay
  Oliveira


Tenants



 
 
Jingping Jia and Ran Zhou (the 'Landlords') applied
for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict Pierre Horak, Tyler Jay
Oliveira and Fatima M De Oliveira (the 'Tenants') because they intend to do
major repairs or renovations to the rental unit. The Landlords also claimed
compensation for each day the Tenants remained in the unit after the
termination date.
 
This application was heard by
videoconference on November
3, 2021 at 10:49am.
 
Only the Landlords attended
the hearing. The Landlords were represented by Jianhong Guang.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     By way of background, this is a month-to-month tenancy
in which rent is due on the nineteenth of the month. The residential complex
is a three-bedroom house. This tenancy
began on August 19, 2020.
 
2.     The Landlords’ L2 application is based on a N13 notice
of termination served to the Tenants on August 11, 2021 by mail, with a
termination date of December 18, 2021, pursuant to subsection 50(1)c of the
Act; the N13 alleges that extensive renovations or repairs need to be done and require vacant
possession of the rental unit. The proposed renovations in the Landlords’
application included replacing the well-water system, electric system, septic
tank, as well as renovations to the bathroom and kitchen.
 
3.     The Landlords’ uncontested evidence was the Tenants
had brought the issues to the Landlords’ attention, which the Landlords
were addressing by undergoing the renovations
proposed on the N13 notice of termination.
 
4.     The Landlords testified
that the well-water system inside the house was not part of the City’s lines; in April 2021, the
Tenants complained of not having water for a period of three days. The
Landlords had to ask a truck to have the well filled for these days. On




 
investigation, it was found
that there was an issue with the tank
which required the floor needing to be removed. Similarly, the Tenants
complained of problems with the septic tank
– specifically that the toilet water was smelly– on investigation it was found that the pump was blocked, and the technician
indicated it the system needed to be replaced.
With respect to the electrical
system, this required replacement due to usage over its capacity. The proposed
renovations to the kitchen and the bathroom address the complaints of mould as the foundation is made of wood and could impact the airflow.
The Landlords engaged the services of Feng Home Inspection to inspect
the house and provide recommendations.
 
5.     The Landlords submit that the compensation required
pursuant to section 52 of the Act was paid in the amount of $2,000.00 to the
Tenants by cheque on August 10, 2021 and the
Landlords confirm that, as of the hearing
date, the cheque
was cashed. A copy of the
cheque was submitted into evidence.
 
6.    
In terms of building permits, on
the L2 application, the Landlords submit that they have not obtained the
necessary building permits to do the work because the City has told them that permits are not required
for this type of work; furthermore, at the hearing,
there were no building permits presented to support the N13 notice of
termination.
 
ANALYSIS
 
7.     Sections 50(1)c and 73 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 state:
 
50 (1) A landlord
may give notice
of termination of a tenancy if the landlord
requires possession of the rental unit in order to,
 
(c) do repairs or renovations to it that are so extensive that they require a building permit and vacant
possession of the rental unit.
 
73
(1) The Board shall not make an order terminating a tenancy and evicting the tenant
in an application under section
69 based on a notice of termination under section 50 unless it
is satisfied that,
 
(a)  
the landlord intends in good faith to carry out the activity on which the notice of termination was based; and
 
(b)  
the landlord has,
 
(i) 
obtained all necessary permits or other authority that may be required to carry out the activity
on which the notice of termination was based, or
 
(ii)  
has taken all reasonable steps
to obtain all necessary permits or other authority that may be required to
carry out the activity on which the notice
of termination was based, if it is not possible
to obtain the permits or other
authority until the rental unit is vacant.
 
[Emphasis added.]




 
8.    
This means the Landlords must meet
a two-part test: that the work proposed is so extensive that it requires
a building permit and that in order for the work to be conducted, vacant possession is required.
 
9.     The problem with the Landlords’ application is that
the Landlords have failed to obtain any building permits
for the proposed work as mandated by subsection
50(1)(c) which is a condition or taken all reasonable
steps to do so. In fact, the Landlords’ evidence was, according to the City, no
permits are required for this work.
 
10.  A plain reading of subsection 50(1)(c) is clear that a
landlord’s application may not succeed if no building permits
are required to do the repairs or renovations.
The Board cannot terminate a tenancy
if no permits are necessary.
 
11.  Had the legislature intended that a landlord be able
to terminate a tenancy and evict a tenant for the purpose of performing renovations or repairs that do not require a building
permit it would not have drafted s. 50(1)(c) as it did so. The language of the
section expressly says that the renovations be “so extensive” that they require
both a building permit and vacant possession.
 
12. 
Based on the
evidence before the Board, I am not satisfied that the Landlords have met the
two-part test and established that it had taken all reasonable steps to obtain
the necessary permits to conduct the extensive repairs
and renovations or that it is necessary to have vacant possession of the
rental unit to conduct these extensive repairs or renovations. As such, the
Landlords’ application must be dismissed.
 
13. 
With respect
to the compensation that was paid to the Tenants
pursuant to section 52 of the Act, in the amount of $2,000.00 and in accordance with
section 73.1 of the Act, an order shall issue requiring the Tenants to return
it the Landlords on or before February 19, 2022.
 
14.  This order contains all of the reasons
for the decision within it. No further
reasons shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlords’ application is dismissed.
 
2.    
The Tenants shall return
to the Landlords the compensation that was paid, in the amount
of $2,000.00, on or before February 19, 2022.
 
3.     If the Tenants fail to comply with paragraph 2 of this
order, the Tenants will start to owe interest.
This will be simple interest
calculated from February 20, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
February 8, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Sonia Anwar-Ali
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
 
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

