Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-31
File number:	
SOL-23971-21

Citation:	Hall v Reid, 2022 CanLII 82113 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrv22>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-23971-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


APT. #1, 16 MCMURRAY STREET DUNDAS ON L9H2W5


 




Between:


Daniel Hall


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Carey Reid


Tenant



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daniel Hall (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Carey Reid
(the 'Tenant')
 
1.   
because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone
the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant; because the Tenant,
another occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the
residential complex has wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the
premises;
(N5 Notice
of Termination)
 
2.   
because the Tenant or another
occupant of the rental unit has committed an illegal act or has carried
out, or permitted
someone to carry
out an illegal trade, business
or occupation in the rental
unit or the residential complex; and
(N6 Notice
of Termination)
 
3.   
because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
seriously impaired the safety of any person; and because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex
has wilfully caused
undue damage to the premises. The Landlord has also
applied for an order requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlord for
damage. (N7 Notice of Termination)
 
This application was heard by videoconference on September 16, 2021.
The Landlord and the Tenant attended the hearing.




 
Determinations:
 
N5 Notice of Termination
 
1.    
The N5 notice of termination was served on August 10, 2021.
The notice identifies two
reasons for the notice: 1. substantial interference and 2. willful or negligent
damage.
 
2.     With respect to substantial interference, the Landlord said that the Tenant did not engage in any of the behaviours
identified in the notice during the seven day period following the date the
notice was served. As a result, the Tenant voided the notice with respect to
substantial interference and this portion of the Landlord’s application is
dismissed.
 
3.    
With respect to wilful or negligent damage, the N5 notice of termination identifies damage to the carpet, glass
door, window screens,
door handles, and damage to the front
door of the building.
 
4.    
The Tenant has resided
in the rental unit since October 1, 2013. The Landlord purchased the building in July 2021.
 
5.    
With respect to the carpet, the parties agreed
that the Tenant had done painting projects in the rental unit without a drop
cloth resulting in paint landing on the carpet.
 
6.     The parties disagreed
with respect to the valuation
of the damage to the carpet and whether this damage warranted
termination of the tenancy.
 
7.     The Landlord said that the previous owners told him
that the carpet was cleaned before the Tenant moved in. He also said that the
previous owners showed him photographs taken of the carpet prior to the Tenant
moving in and that these photos showed that the carpet was in good condition at
that time. These photographs were not submitted into evidence. The Landlord did
not provide information with respect to when the carpet was installed. The Landlord submitted evidence that it would cost $2,000.00 to install laminate flooring to replace the carpet.
 
8.     The Tenant testified that the carpet was stained and
in poor condition at the time she moved in. It was the Tenant’s position
that the carpet had little to no value because
it was well past its useful
life.
 
9.     While no evidence was presented as to the date the
carpet was installed, both the Landlord’s and the Tenant’s evidence indicate
that the carpet was not new when the Tenant moved in on October 1, 2013. As
such, the carpet is at least eight years old. Ontario regulation 516/06 states
that the useful life of a carpet
is 10 years. Thus, based on
the undisputed facts, the carpet has limited value.
 
10.  In addition, I find the Tenant’s direct in person
testimony regarding the condition of the carpet at the time she moved in to be more persuasive than the hearsay
evidence from the Landlord.




 
11.  In these circumstances, I find that the carpet had little to no value when it was damaged by the Tenant, but in light of
the Tenant’s admission to causing some damage to the carpet, I find it
appropriate to award damages in the nominal amount of $100.00.
 
12.  The damage to the glass door consists of one cracked
glass panel in an interior glass French door. Neither
party had any information as to how or when this damage
occurred. In light of the dearth of information, I do not find the
Landlord has established on a balance of probabilities that the Tenant or her
guests wilfully or negligently cause this damage.
 
13.  The Landlord said that all the window
screens had been put
back in place by the Tenant
so this portion of the application is dismissed.
 
14.  With respect to the door handles, the parties described the door handle mechanisms as an
old-fashioned type where the door handles are screwed onto a metal shaft that
goes through the door/latching mechanism. When the screws holding the door
handles to the shafts become loose, the door handles come off. The Landlord’s
complaint was that these door handles
were not on the doors.
After giving the notice of termination, he says
that he saw them in place, but he doubted that they were installed properly. I
find this to be a maintenance issue which the Landlord failed to address rather
than a legitimate claim for damages. More pointedly, I find the Landlord has
failed to establish on a balance of probabilities that the Tenant or her guests
wilfully or negligently caused damage to the door handles.
 
15.  With respect to the front
door, the Tenant
readily admitted to acting in a negligent manner resulting in damage to the door
and agreed that she should compensate the Landlord for the door.
 
16.  The parties agreed that the compensation for damage to the door should be $960.50.
 
N6 Notice of Termination
 
17.  The Landlord’s application with respect to the N6 Notice of Termination is dismissed
because the notice fails to meet the mandatory requirements of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).
 
18.  The notice is vague and lacking in particulars. All it says is:
 
03-AUG-2021 & 09-AUG-2021 Other Tenants telling
me about your history purchasing and using drugs on the
property.
 
16-NOV-2020 Text message from you admitting to buying drugs on occasion
at the property.
 
19.  The reason this is a problem is because subsection
43(2) of the Act says a notice of termination
given by a landlord to a tenant must also set out the reasons
and details for the notice.




 
20.  Ball v. Metro Capital
Property, [2002] O.J. No. 5931 states that the kinds of particulars
that should be contained in a notice
about a tenant’s
behaviour includes “dates
and times of the alleged
offensive conduct together with a detailed description of the alleged conduct
engaged in by the tenant”.
 
21.  The notice here clearly does not meet this requirement. “Other Tenants telling me about
your history purchasing and using drugs on the property” and “Text message from
you admitting to buying drugs on occasion at the property” do not constitute
detailed descriptions of the alleged conduct engaged in by the Tenant.
 
N7 Notice of Termination
 
22.  The Landlord’s application with respect to the N7
Notice of Termination is similarly dismissed
because the notice
fails to meet the mandatory requirements of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’).
 
23.  The notice is vague and lacking in particulars. All it says is:
 
On-going over your tenancy.
09-AUG-2021. Multiple Tenants
have concerns for their
safety due to your dangerous behaviour and drug use on the property.
 
On-going over your tenancy.
Multiple damages including negligence to repair
water issue which caused excessive damage to the ceiling, painting on
the carpet flooring, broken glass on door,
missing screens, missing
door handles. Throwing
rocks at the building and exterior front door. Etc.
 
24.  The reason this is a problem is because subsection
43(2) of the Act says a notice of termination
given by a landlord to a tenant must also set out the reasons
and details for the notice.
 
25.  Ball v. Metro Capital
Property, [2002] O.J. No. 5931 states that the kinds of particulars
that should be contained in a notice
about a tenant’s
behaviour includes “dates
and times of the alleged
offensive conduct together with a detailed description of the alleged conduct
engaged in by the tenant”.
 
26.  The notice here clearly does not meet these
requirements. With respect to the first item on the notice, “Multiple Tenants
have concerns for their safety due to your dangerous behaviour and drug use on
the property.” does not constitute a detailed description of the alleged conduct
engaged in by the Tenant. With respect to the second item on the notice, “On-going over your tenancy”
does not constitute dates and times of the alleged offensive conduct.
 
Additional Damages
 
27.  The Landlord’s application for $1,000.00 for water
damage is dismissed because the Landlord does not claim that the Tenant
caused the damage.
Rather, the Landlord
states that a maintenance problem caused the water
damage and that the Tenant did not report




 
the maintenance problem to the Landlord. I do not find the Tenant’s failure
to report a maintenance problem equivalent to
causing damage.
 
Remedies
 
28.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief
from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the Act. The value of the damage
to the rental unit/residential complex is low. In addition, the Tenant readily
admitted to the damage she caused, expressed remorse, and agreed that she
should compensate the Landlord for the damage to the door. The Tenant resides
in the rental unit with her 13-year-old son and has lived there since 2013. In
other words, this is a lengthy tenancy which also involves a child. I find it
appropriate under these circumstances to dismiss the Landlord’s application for
termination of the tenancy, but allow the Landlord’s claim for damage.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The Tenant shall pay to the Landlord $1,060.50 ($100.00 for the carpet and $960.50 for the door), which represents the
reasonable costs of repairing the damage and/or replacing the damaged property.
 
2.     The Tenant shall
also pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
3.     If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord the full amount
owing on or before
February 10, 2022, the Tenant will
start to owe interest. This will be
simple interest calculated from February 11, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
balance outstanding.
 
 
January 31 2022                                                                                 Date Issued                                                                       Richard
Ferriss
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

