Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-01
File number:	
SOL-25425-21

Citation:	Andriychuk v Sehra, 2022 CanLII 87212 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2h3>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-25425-21
 
 
In the matter of:      107, 1276 MAPLE CROSSING BOULEVARD
BURLINGTON ON L7S2J9
 
Between:                  Irina Andriychuk                                    Landlord
 
 
and
 
Parag Sehra                                                                                                                 Tenant
 
 
Irina Andriychuk (the 'Landlord') applied for an order requiring
Parag Sehra (the 'Tenant') to pay
compensation for the damages caused by the Tenant or a person the Tenant
permitted in the residential complex
 
This application was heard via videoconference on January 19, 2022.
 
The Landlord and the Tenant attended
the hearing as did the Landlord’s Representative, Edward Sullivan and the Tenant’s Representative, Jordan
Nieuwhof.
 
 
Preliminary Matter:
 
1.     
The Tenant’s Representative brought
forward a preliminary issue regarding the validity of the L2 since an N5 was not served prior
to the L2 being filed.
 
2.     
Section 89(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act states:
 
A
landlord may apply to the Board for an order requiring a tenant or former
tenant to pay reasonable costs that the landlord has incurred or will incur for
the repair of or, where repairing is not reasonable, the replacement of damaged
property if,
 
(a)    
while the tenant or former
tenant is or was in possession of the rental unit, the tenant or former tenant,
another occupant of the rental unit or a person
permitted in the residential complex
by the tenant or former tenant
wilfully or negligently causes or caused undue damage to the rental unit or the
residential complex;
 
3.     
The Act does not make it a precondition that a Notice to Terminate, such as an N5,
is necessary when the only remedy being sought by the Landlord is for
compensation and not an order for eviction. The Application by the Landlord was




 
filed on October 20, 2021, while
the tenancy did not terminate until Oct. 31, 2021,
therefore the Application is acceptable.
 
Determinations:
 
Mutually Agreed
Upon Facts
 
1.       
The appliance in question is a
Kenmore top-loading washing machine. Although the actual age of the washing machine
was not ascertained, it is known to be at least seven years old.
 
2.       
When the Tenant took possession of the unit, the Landlord
had supplied the operating
manual for the washing machine to the Tenant.
 
3.       
In July 2021 a flood occurred in
the rental unit. An occupant of the rental unit, only identified as “Bob”, was doing a load of laundry.
He left the rental unit while the washing
machine was operating but the Tenant
was home. The washing machine failed to drain and the water spilled over the
top of the appliance, causing a flood in the unit.
 
4.       
Water spilled out on to sections
of the floors in the two bedrooms
and the living
room of the rental unit.
 
5.       
When the clothing was removed from the washing
machine, the drain functioned
properly.
 
6.       
Both parties agree that an item of clothing
clogged the washing
machine that day.
 
7.       
The resulting water spillage would
later cause the cork underlay under the hardwood to be saturated. The excess
moisture caused damage
to the hardwood flooring to the point where replacement was necessary.
 
8.       
The Landlord purchased a new washing
machine.
 
Landlord Testimony
 
1.    
The washing machine manual
indicates that smaller items should be placed in a garment bag before
being washed and the washing
machine should not be left unattended while in
use.
 
2.    
The Landlord testified that she saw “Bob” remove
an item from the drain hose but did not know what he removed.
 
Tenant Testimony
 
1.    
The Tenant testified that he and his roommate,
“Bob”, have used the washing
machine at least once a week
for ten months and had never encountered a problem like this prior to the incident.




 
2.    
The Tenant stated he though the drain hose sucked up Bob’s “shorts”
but Bob later found the shorts elsewhere. The Tenant
did not know what blocked the drain hose.
 
3.    
The Tenant saw water
on the floor from his bedroom and he immediately stopped the machine,
started cleaning up the water, and contacted the Landlord.
 
Negligence
 
1.     
The main issue is whether negligence on the part of the Tenants resulted
in the flooding and subsequent floor damage in the rental unit.
 
2.     
Paragraph 3 of Mustapha v. Culligan of Canada Ltd., [2008] 2 S.C.R. 114, 2008 SCC 27
states:
 
A successful action in negligence requires that the plaintiff demonstrate (1) that the defendant owed him a duty of care; (2) that the
defendant’s behaviour breached the standard of care; (3) that the plaintiff
sustained damage; and (4) that the damage was caused, in fact and in law, by the
defendant’s breach.
 
3.     
There is no question that a duty
of care exists, and that the Landlord sustained damage. The issue is whether the standard of care was breached by the Tenant.
 
4.     
In this case the Tenant has done laundry
for years without
any problem and used
this machine for over 10 months without problem. The flood was a solitary event
and there was no evidence to the contrary.
 
5.     
Neither the Landlord nor the
Tenant provided evidence to verify what item was found clogging the drain hose.
Therefore, there was not enough evidence to establish whether the clothing
item found was small enough
that it warranted the use of a garmet bag.
 
6.     
It’s also unknown whether
the clog was caused
by a latent defect in the machine
itself that allowed the article of clothing to clog the drain. The Landlord
chose to replace the washing
machine with a new one rather
than repair it. As such,
there was no way to ascertain whether the drainpipe was clogged due to
human or mechanical error.
 
7.     
We find there was not enough
evidence to establish a breach in the standard of care. The Landlord has not
proven that the washing machine was used by the Tenant or his occupant in a way
that damage could reasonably be foreseen. Furthermore, the Tenant, upon seeing
the water on the floor, immediately
stopped the machine, informed the Landlord of the situation, and started to
clean the overflow, thus meeting
the duty of care owed to the Landlord upon discovery of the
flood.




 
8.     
For these reasons, the Landlord
has not established that the Tenant or an occupant of the rental
unit, wilfully or negligently caused
undue damage to the
rental unit.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.       
The Landlord's application is dismissed.
 
 
 
February 1, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant
Board
 












Robert Brown
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West, 6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

