Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-18
File number:	
SOL-24727-21

Citation:	Kedziora v Tucker, 2022 CanLII 70628 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jr93j>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOL-24727-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


35 NOTTINGHAM STREET N GUELPH ON
  N1H3M6


 




Between:


Janice Kedziora


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Anita Tucker


Tenant



 
 
 
Janice Kedziora (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Clifford Snoek and
Anita Tucker (the 'Tenants') because they, another occupant of the rental unit
or someone they permitted in the residential complex have wilfully or
negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The Landlord has also applied
for an order requiring the Tenants to compensate the Landlord for the damage;
and because they, another occupant
of the rental unit or
someone they permitted in the residential complex have substantially interfered
with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the
Landlord or another tenant.
 
The Landlord said that Clifford Snoek is an occupant, not a Tenant,
so the application was
amended accordingly.
 
This application was heard
by video conference on January 5,
2022.
 
Only the Landlord, the Landlord’s husband
E. Kedziora, and the Landlord’s legal representative,
D. Bernstein, attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Tenant did not attend
the hearing, scheduled for 9 a.m. I waited
over an hour, and
then I proceeded to hear the matter on an uncontested basis.
 
2.     The rental unit is a semi-detached house. The Tenant moved in during August,
2019.
 
3.     The Landlord served
the Tenant with an N5 notice of termination alleging
that the Tenant caused undue damage to windows,
doors, ceiling tile, drywall, light switches, door frames, door trims and door
locks. The Landlord asked the Tenant
to pay $4,920.00 for the damage within 7 days after serving the N5 notice of
termination.
 
4.     The Landlord said that the Tenant did not pay $4,920.00, and has not paid anything
to date. Consequently, I find
that the Tenant did not void the N5 notice of termination.




 
 
 
5.    
The N5 notice of termination also alleged that there were a number
of incidents of loud,
drunken behaviour, and loud blaring music coming from the rental unit in the
middle of the night on various dates in September and October, 2020, and in
July and August, 2021.
 
6.     The Landlord’s husband,
E. Kedziora (EK), acts as the property
manager of the rental
unit.
 
7.    
EK said that he always completes
repairs before a tenant moves into the rental unit. EK
submitted into evidence a check list of jobs he had done prior to the Tenant
moving in, including changing the ceiling tiles, installing carpets on the
stairs, as well as installing laminate on the kitchen floor. He said that the rental unit was in perfect
condition when the Tenant moved in.
 
8.     EK said that on July 29, 2021, he got a call from the
neighbour informing the Landlord that the police
were at the rental
unit. He said that he immediately drove there. He said
that the neighbour called the police because of loud music and disturbances. EK also said that he received a call from
the neighbour on August 31, 2021, for a similarly loud party.
 
9.     EK said that because of the disturbance that occurred on July 29, 2021, he undertook an inspection of the property, and he took
a number of photos that he submitted into evidence. He said that the photos were taken in August or September, 2021. The photos show damage to ceiling tiles in
the kitchen, nicks and other damage on the door fames, damage to drywall and
doors, missing door knobs and locks, damage to light switches, and damage to
the bathroom vanity and sink.
 
10.  EK submitted into evidence an itemized list of all the repairs
and replacements, for a total cost of $7,285.00. EK said that he ran a handyman business,
and he has a lot of experience doing this type of work.
 
11.  EK said that he and the Landlord
suspect that most of the damage has been done by C. Snoek
(CS), an occupant of the Tenant. EK said that he believes CS is
living in the unit on his own at the moment. He said that
the Tenant has made no attempt to remove CS from the property, nor has she
acknowledged nor paid for the damage.
 
12.  The Landlord’s witness,
K. Goslin (KG),
lives next door to the rental unit. She said that
the loud, disrespectful behaviour coming from the rental unit started in 2020. She said that she asked CS not to play
drums at 1 a.m. in the morning, and he has ignored her requests. She said that she sees lots of “random
people” coming and going from the rental unit, as well as fighting, and beer
bottles being thrown.
 
13.  KG said that she did not want to “bother”
the Landlord, but by late July, 2021, it was the
“last straw”, so she informed
the Landlord. She said that there was an incident
with her four year old child
who had been frightened by CS. She
said that when her husband went to talk with CS, he was throwing 2 X 4’s
against a fence.




 
 
 
14.  KG said that these noisy incidents persisted, and she is frequently up all hours
of the night.
 
15.  The Landlord submits that the Tenant has not taken any
steps to fix the extensive damage in the rental unit. The Landlord also submits that there have been frequent
incidents of loud, drunken behaviour, and these incidents
have persisted. The Landlord
requests eviction, and the $4,120.00 requested for damage in the application.
 
Reasons and Analysis:
 
16.  Subsection 62(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 (the ‘Act’) provides that a landlord may give a tenant notice of
termination of the tenancy if the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person whom the tenant permits
in the residential complex
wilfully or negligently causes undue damage to the rental unit or the
residential complex.
 
17.  Subsection 64(1) of the Act provides that a landlord
may give a tenant notice of termination of the tenancy
if the conduct of the tenant, another occupant
of the rental unit or a
person permitted in the residential complex by the tenant is such that it
substantially interferes with the reasonable enjoyment
of the residential complex for all usual
purposes by the landlord or another tenant or substantially interferes
with another lawful right, privilege or interest of the landlord or another
tenant.
 
18.  The uncontested evidence
of the Landlord was that there was extensive damage found in the property after the Landlord became
aware that there were frequent, loud parties and drunken behaviour going on in
the rental unit. The Landlord had a
number of photos of this damage. This damage was not the result of wear and
tear, but it was rather wilful or negligent.
I find that this damage is damage as described in subsection 62(1) of
the Act.
 
19.  Consequently, I find that the Tenant, an occupant of the rental
unit, or a person permitted in the residential complex by
the Tenant, has wilfully or negligently
caused undue damage to the rental unit or residential complex by damaging
multiple doors, walls, light switches, ceilings and locks in the rental unit.
 
20.  The Landlord will incur costs of at least $4,120.00 to repair the damage
and/or replace property that
was damaged and cannot be reasonably repaired.
 
21.  The uncontested evidence of the Landlord’s witnesses
was that the Tenant or her occupant had loud, drunken parties that went on in
the middle of the night. These
parties, and this behaviour was sufficiently disturbing as to lead to police
involvement. The Landlord’s witness
also testified about CS’ behaviour that frightened her 4 year old
child, and resulted in her and her family witnessing CS becoming violent, and
causing further disturbances.
 
22.   Consequently, I find that the Tenant, an occupant of the Tenant’s
rental unit, or a person permitted in the residential
complex by the Tenants carried on a way that has substantially interfered with
the Landlord's reasonable enjoyment of the residential




 
complex, or that has substantially interfered with a lawful
right, privilege or interest of the
Landlord as described in subsection 64(1) of the Act.
 
23.  The Landlord’s evidence
was that most of this behaviour is carried out by an occupant of the rental unit, and the Landlord does
not believe that the Tenant lives at the property. Therefore, there is no
evidence that there should be any delay in the eviction.
 
24.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances
above in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would
be unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the
Act.
 
It is ordered
that:
 
1.    
The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenant is terminated, as of January 29, 2022. The Tenant
must move out of the rental unit on or before January 29, 2022.
 
2.     The Tenant shall
pay to the Landlord $4,120.00, which represents the reasonable costs of repairing the damage and/or replacing the damaged
property.
 
3.     The Tenant shall
also pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
4.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord the full amount
owing on or before January 29, 2022, she will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from January 30, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
balance outstanding.
 
5.     If the unit is not vacated
on or before January 29, 2022, then starting January
30, 2022, the Landlord may
file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the
eviction may be enforced.
 
6.     Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed
to give vacant possession of
the unit to the Landlord on or after January 30, 2022.
 
 
January 18, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.




 
In accordance with section
81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction
expires on July 30, 2022 if
the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

