Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-08
File number:	
SOT-09321-19

Citation:	SOT-09321-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 94649 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsd4r>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 30
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOT-09321-19
 
 
 
JA (the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that VT
and EM (denim E.) (the 'Landlords') failed
to meet the Landlords' maintenance
obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') or
failed to comply with health, safety, housing or maintenance standards.
 
This application was heard by way of video conference on November 4, 2021. The Landlord,
(‘EV’) (owner), the Landlord’s Legal Representative, TK and the Tenant attended
the hearing. The Tenant spoke to
Tenant Duty Counsel prior to the commencement of the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
Tenant’s Evidence
 
1.       
For the reasons that follow, I am
not satisfied on a balance of probabilities that the Landlords breached
their maintenance obligation under the Act, or that they failed
to comply with health, safety, housing, or maintenance standards.
 
2.       
The Tenant testified that she
moved into the rental unit on September 15, 2018. She moved out of the rental
unit on September 6, 2019. The Tenant
alleges that she moved
out of the rental unit because
the Landlord failed to address a bed bug
infestation in her rental unit.
 
3.       
The Tenant testified that she
advised the Landlord of the bed bug issue by way of email on August 31, 2019.
On September 3, 2019, the Landlords
responded to the Tenant
that they would have someone attend
the unit ASAP to do an inspection. The Tenant told the
Landlord that they could not attend
the unit because she was not home, and her dog
was in the unit.




 
4.       
The Tenant testified that on September
5, 2019, she again reached
out to the Landlords about
the bed bugs. The Landlord told the
Tenant that the pest control company would
arrive to her unit on September 10, 2019. The Tenant was not pleased with the
Landlords’ response as they were aware, she was moving out of the unit on
September 6, 2019.
 
5.       
The Tenant testified that bed bugs caused bite marks on her daughter. She had to spend
money to try and treat the
infestation herself and she
had to constantly vacuum the rental unit.
 
6.       
The Tenant testified that because
of the bed bug infestation, she had to throw out three mattresses (Queen,
Double and Twin)
and her couch.
The Tenant wants the Landlord
to reimburse her $1,944.57 for the cost to replace these items. The Tenant
did not provide any receipts to support this claim
 
7.       
The Tenant is also seeking $134.00
be reimbursed by the Landlord for her out of pocket cost of buying a bug spray to treat
the infestation. The Tenant had no
receipts for this claim.
 
Landlords’ Evidence
 
8.       
EV confirmed the Tenant reported
the bed bug concerns. When the other
Landlord,  (‘VT’) called the Tenant to advise that the pest control company
would be there the same day at 3:30pm,
the Tenant began yelling and screaming that they were not allowed in her rental unit. The
Tenant threatened to call the police if the tried to enter the unit. Because of the Tenant’s threats and fear
of being accused of breaking into the rental unit the Landlord decided was best
to attend the unit when the Tenant moved out which was only a few days later on
September 6, 2019.
 
9.       
On September 7, 2019, EV attended
the unit and found the Tenant’s mattresses and couch and table. He called the Tenant to ask her to pick up
her belongings, but she refused stating they were infested with bed bugs.
 
10.    EV took the position that the Tenant did not establish
that he failed to meet his maintenance obligations or that he did not comply
with the health and safety regulations because
he took action when he was advised
of the issue and it was the Tenant’s actions which impeded the treatment of the bed bugs.
 
11.    EV further submitted that the Tenant did not throw out her mattresses and couch,
and she did not incur replacement cost due to bed bugs. He says this because
the Tenant left the items in
the rental unit and never provided receipts in support of her claim, including
her claim for purchasing bug spray.
 
12.    EV submitted the Tenant’s application should be dismissed.
 
13.   
The Tenant
replied to EV’s evidence by stating that she never
received a phone
call form VT, and she moved
out of the rental unit because the Landlords served her with an N5 Notice of Termination.




 
Findings
 
14.    Section 20 of the Act holds the landlord responsible
for providing and maintaining the rental unit in a good state of repair. This applies even if the tenant was aware of the state of non-repair before the tenancy
started:
 
20 (1) A landlord
is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in
it, in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with
health, safety, housing and maintenance standards. 2006, c. 17, s. 20 (1).
 
(2) Subsection (1) applies
even if the tenant was aware of a state of non-repair or a contravention
of a standard before entering into the tenancy agreement. 2006, c. 17, s. 20 (2).
 
15.    In Onyskiw v. CJ, M Property Management, 2016
ONCA 477 (CanLII), the Court of Appeal held that the Board ought
to apply a contextual approach
in determining whether a
landlord has breached
its maintenance obligations under the Act. A landlord
will not be responsible for breaching its obligations if, after considering all of the circumstances, it is
found that the landlord addressed the maintenance issues in a reasonable
manner.
 
16.   
I
must also apply subsection 30(2) of the Act,
and consider whether
the tenant, or former
tenant, advised the landlord of the alleged breaches before applying to the
Board, and also the parties’ duty to mitigate found in section 16 of the Act.
 
17.    Section 16 of the Act requires that a tenant or Landlord must take steps to mitigate
loss. Section 16 of the Act reads as follows:
 
When a landlord or a tenant
becomes liable to pay any amount as a result of a breach of a tenancy
agreement, the person
entitled to claim the
amount has a duty
to take reasonable steps to minimize the person’s losses.
 
18.    On a balance
of probabilities, I am satisfied that the Landlords responded to the Tenant’s
complaint of bed bugs in a reasonable time and that their efforts to deal with
the issue was obstructed by the Tenant’s refusal to grant them access to the
unit. I say this because the Tenant
did not provide any reasonably evidence which challenged EV’s evidence that
they tried to access the unit with the pest control company. In fact, the Tenant’s evidence confirms
that she denied the Landlords and pest control company access to the unit
because she was not home her dog was in the rental unit. It
would be inherently unjust to hold
the Landlords accountable for breaching their maintenance obligations when they
made reasonable efforts to address the issue but were prevented from doing so
because the Tenant denied access to the rental unit. In saying, this, I further find that pursuant to section
16 of the Act, by denying
the Landlords access
to the unit with the pest
control company, the Tenant failed to mitigate or minimize her losses.
 
19.    The Tenant’s application is dismissed.
 
It is ordered
that:




 
 
 
1.       
The Tenant's application is dismissed.
 
 
February 8, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Dawn Wickett
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West, 6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

