Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
SOT-15381-20

Citation:	Mancini v Harry, 2022 CanLII 49940 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpql7>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Subsections 30 and 57(1)
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOT-15381-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


14331 DANBY ROAD HALTON HILLS
ON L7G6L8


 




Between:


Franca Elena
Mancini Pasquale Mancini


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Josephine Harry


Landlord



 
 
Franca Elena Mancini
and Pasquale Mancini
(the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that the Landlord gave a notice in bad
faith. (T5 application)
 
The Tenants also
applied for an order determining that Josephine Harry (the 'Landlord') failed to meet the Landlord's maintenance
obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety,
housing or maintenance standards. (T6 application)
 
These applications were heard via teleconference on October 6, 2021.
 
Only the Tenants attended
the hearing when the matter was called at 10:11am. The Tenants were
represented by Nathan Korenberg.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
By way of background,
this tenancy commenced on June 1, 2017 on a three-year term. The lawful
monthly rent was $1,700.00 and the Tenants
paid a last month rent deposit
in the same amount. The rental unit is a detached home with four
bedrooms, a two-car garage and is approximately 2,500 square feet in size.
 
T5 application
 
2.    
The Tenants
uncontested evidence was on December
31, 2019, the Tenants were given
a N12 notice of termination with a termination date of May 31, 2020 along with
a letter from their Landlord denying their request to extend the lease due to
the N12. The N12 notice stated that the Landlord in good faith, required
possession of the rental unit for himself and his son, for the purpose of
residential occupation.
 
3.    
The Tenants
testified that on February 4, 2020, they provided a N9 notice of termination to the Landlord with a
termination date of March 31, 2020, which was earlier than the date on the N12
notice as they had successfully secured another unit in the same




 
neighbourhood – this tenancy
would begin on April 1, 2020 with a lawful
rent of
$2,800.00.
 
4.    
The Tenants testified
that at no point did they receive any compensation from the Landlord for the N12 notice
as required pursuant to section
48.1 of the Act, nor were
they ever behind on rent throughout the tenancy.
 
5.    
After moving out, the
Tenants testified that on April 7, 2020 they discovered an MLS listing for the rental
unit for lease in the amount of $2,600.00 per month. A copy of this
listing was submitted into evidence in support of this assertion.
 
6.    
The Tenants testified
that between the time they were given the N12 to the time they moved out and
even after, the Landlord did not communicate whether there had been a change in circumstances or that
she no longer required the rental unit for herself
and her son.
 
7.    
The Tenants
seek the following
remedies as a result of this
application: a rent differential
of what they pay now versus what they paid at the rental unit; a reimbursement
of the moving expenses they incurred; and a fine to the Board.
 
ANALYSIS
 
8.    
Subsection 57(1)(a) of
the Act establishes a four-part test in order to be successful on this application. The Tenants must establish all of the requirements of subsection 57(1)(a) on a balance of probabilities:
 
•        
The Landlord
gave a notice of termination under section 48 of the Act (N12 notice);
•        
The notice
was given in bad faith.
•        
The Tenants
vacated the rental
unit as a result of the N12 notice of Board Order based on the N12 notice; and
 
•        
The person named in the N12 notice did not move into the rental unit within a reasonable time after Tenants vacated.
 
9.    
With respect
to the application before the Board, the evidence
indicates that the Tenants
were served the N12; vacated earlier as a result of the N12 notice and the
individuals who were supposed to move into the rental unit (as per the N12) did
not do so.
 
10.  With respect to whether the notice was
given in bad faith, in general, the burden of proof typically falls on a tenant
to establish that the notice of termination was served in bad faith. However,
in this case, the fact that the rental unit was listed within days and re-
rented within a week of the Tenants
vacating pursuant to the termination notice, creates a presumption that the Landlords served
the N12 notice in bad faith. This is found at subsections 57(5) and 57(6) of
the Act which state:
 
For the purposes
of an application under clause (1) (a), it is presumed,
unless the contrary is proven
on a balance of probabilities, that a landlord gave a notice of




 
termination under section
48 in bad faith, if at any time during
the period described in subsection (6) the landlord,
 
(a)   advertises the rental unit for rent;
(b)   enters into a tenancy
agreement in respect
of the rental unit with someone other than the former
tenant;
(c)   advertises the rental unit,
or the building that contains
the rental unit, for sale;
(d)  
demolishes the rental unit or the building containing the rental unit; or
(e)   takes any step to convert the rental unit,
or the building containing the rental unit, to use for a purpose
other than residential premises.
Same
 
(6)    
The period
referred to in subsection (5) is the period that,
 
(a)   begins on the day the landlord gives
the notice of termination under section 48; and
(b)   ends one year after the former tenant
vacates the rental unit.
 
[Emphasis added.]
 
11.  As the Landlord did not attend the hearing
to provide evidence, they failed to rebut the presumption of bad faith. Thus, based on the uncontested evidence
before the Board, we find that on the balance of
probabilities the Landlord served the Tenants with a notice of termination in
bad faith and contravened section 57 of the Act.
 
12.  With respect to the remedies sought by the
Tenant, we find it appropriate to award the Tenant the rent differential of $1,100.00. The Tenants’ new home is roughly equivalent to the rental unit, although slightly smaller with one less
bedroom, one less garage space and size-wise it is 500 square feet smaller.
 
13.  At the hearing,
the Tenants submitted
their new lease which lists the new monthly
rent at
$2,800.00 per
month; their previous rent was $1,700.00 per month. Since we find the notice of
termination was given in bad faith, and the Tenants were required to move into
similar but more expensive rental
accommodation, the Landlord will be ordered
to pay the Tenants rent differential of $1,100.00 per month for the
maximum of 12 months (April 2020 – March 2021) or $13,200.00.
 
14.  With respect to the Tenants’ request for a
reimbursement of the expenses related to moving, we find that as the Tenants’
are entitled to moving costs, as these costs were a
direct consequence of the Landlord serving the notice of termination in bad
faith. While there were no receipts presented, we accept the Tenants’ testimony
that they incurred costs totalling $1,000.00 in moving expenses and this amount
shall be awarded to the Tenants.
 
15. 
The Tenants
also request that an order be issued requiring the Landlord to pay an
administrative fine to the Board for a breach of the Act. The Board’s Interpretation Guideline #16 provides
insight into the Board’s use of fines and states that an




 
administrative fine is a remedy to be used
to encourage compliance with the Act and to
deter landlords from engaging in similar activity in the future.
 
16.  In the case before the Board, we find that the Landlord has shown a
blatant disregard for the Act by serving a N12
notice of termination in bad faith and listing the
property for rent within such a short time of the Tenants vacating
the unit, without
indicating to the Tenants
any change in circumstances; this behaviour
contravenes the Act itself and appears to be an abuse of
process by the Landlord. As such, the Tenants’ request is granted and the
Landlord shall be ordered to pay a fine of $1,000.00.
 
T6 application
 
17. 
With respect
to the Tenants’ application for disrepair, subsection 29(2) of the Act
provides a limitation period for claims before the Board under this
application. It states:
 
29(2) No application may be made under subsection (1) more than one year after the day the alleged conduct giving rise to
the application occurred.
 
18.  The Board can only consider breaches by a
landlord under s.20(1) during the one-year period before the filing of the
application. Accordingly, the remedy that may be granted may only be granted in
relation to breaches during that one-year period. While evidence of events
prior to the commencement of the one-year period may be considered at a hearing before the Board, case law does not permit the Board to extend the remedy back to a time prior to the commencement
of the statutory limitation period.
 
19. 
As the Tenants filed the T6 application on June 18, 2020,
only those issues that occurred between June 19, 2019 and June
18, 2020 may be considered by the Board. As such,
the following
issues on the Tenants’ application are dismissed as they fall outside the
limitation period: paint
work from July 2018;
kitchen repair from March 2018;
bathrooms from January 2018; iron curtain rods from June 2017.
 
20. 
The issues from the Tenants’ application that remain for the
Board’s consideration include:
 
a)  
Exterior landscaping in June 2019;
 
b)  
Exterior gate lock maintenance in June 2019;
 
c)  
Gas fireplace repair in March 2019;
 
d)  
Electrical repairs
in November 2019;
 
e)   Move in and move out cleaning fees incurred in March 2020
Exterior Landscaping
21.  The Tenants testified that the exterior
landscaping of the rental
unit was an issue from the
beginning of this tenancy. Each spring and fall season, the Tenants would
advise the Landlord that maintenance was required to the exterior of the
premises; the Tenants




 
described their displeasure with the exterior
of the premises and the aesthetics of it and sought $1,200.00 for reimbursement of
the landscaping work they performed for the Landlord’s benefit.
 
22.  The Tenants testified that after informing
the Landlord of the issue, the Landlord’s response was that she would send someone over to do it but this never manifested. The Tenants then told the Landlord they would do it and provide receipts for their
expense.
 
23.  Based on the evidence before the Board, we
are not satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that the Landlord
was in breach of subsection 20(1) of the Act by failing to perform cosmetic work to the exterior.
The repairs conducted by the Tenants are described as cosmetic in nature,
which, in our view, is not a basis of a breach as contemplated by subsection 20(1)
of the Act. As such, this claim is dismissed.
 
Exterior Gate Lock
 
24.  The Tenants testified that the lock on the
outside gate needed repair because it did not function properly. This affected
the Tenants because they had a dog and required a secure area for their pet. The Tenants testified that they communicated with the Landlord and that the Landlord did not
respond. So, in late summer of 2019, the Tenants had a contractor attend the
premises to conduct the repair which included realigning the gate door and
installing a handle and lock.
 
25.  The Tenants sought a reimbursement of their out-of-pocket expense to conduct
the repair in the amount of
$250.00. Based on the evidence before the Board, we find that the Landlord failed
to address this item
of disrepair in a timely
and effective manner,
resulting in the Tenants having to conduct this repair on their own,
incurring costs of $250.00 which
shall be awarded.
 
Gas Fireplace
 
26.  The Tenants testified that they noticed the
gas fireplace was not working in the summer of
2019. In September 2019, the Tenants
brought this issue to the Landlord’s attention as the temperatures had dropped and the Tenants
required the use of the fireplace. They noted that the pilot light was not
functioning. The Landlord failed to respond so the Tenants hired a technician
to attend the premises and repair the issue with the fireplace.
 
27.  The Tenants seek reimbursement for this out-of-pocket expense in the amount of
$220.00. Based
on the evidence before the Board, we find that the Landlord failed to address
this item of disrepair in a timely and effective manner, resulting in the
Tenants having to conduct
this repair on their own. While no evidence was presented in support of the amount being sought, we find the
amount to be reasonable under the
circumstances which shall be awarded.
 
Electrical repairs
 
28. 
The Tenants
testified that in mid-November 2019, their
town experienced a power outage that resulted in some of the houses
catching fire in the neighbourhood. The Tenants




 
testified that some of the
indoor and outdoor outlets
required fixing because of the loss of
power. The Tenants informed the Landlord of the issue but did not hear back
from the Landlord. In fear of their home catching fire, they called a
contractor to come in and get the repairs done.
 
29.  The Tenants testified
that the electrical issues were communicated with the Landlord
and the Landlord failed to respond. The Tenants had paid for the repairs
to exterior outlets and inspection of indoor electrical panel and sought
reimbursement for this out-of-pocket expense in the amount of
$250.00.
 
30.  Based on the evidence before
the Board, we find that the
Landlord failed to address this item of disrepair in a timely and
effective manner, resulting in the Tenants having to conduct this repair on
their own. While no evidence was presented in support of the amount being
sought, we find the amount to be reasonable under the circumstances which shall
be awarded.
 
Move-In and Move out cleaning
 
31.  At the hearing, the Tenants testified that
the Landlord had agreed to have the unit cleaned prior to their
move-in. The Tenants
testified that although
the Landlord claims
it was done, it was not performed to the satisfaction of the Tenants and they had the unit cleaned. The Tenants moved into the unit in June
2017. This issue is outside the limitation period and shall be dismissed.
 
32.  The Tenants also testified that as a courtesy
to the Landlord they had the unit cleaned upon
their vacating the home. The Tenants testified that they did not discuss
this with the Landlord but feel that the Landlord
should reimburse them for this issue as it was a benefit the Landlord enjoyed.
 
33. 
As this is not an issue of maintenance or repair, this claim
must be dismissed under this application.
 
34. 
This order contains all of the reasons for the decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.   
The Landlord* shall pay
to the Tenant $13,200.000. This amount represents the difference in rent incurred
by the Tenants for having
to move out of the rental unit due
to the N12 notice of termination that was served to them in bad faith.
 
2.    The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant $1,000.00 for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses that the Tenant has incurred for their moving
expenses.
 
3.   
The Landlord
shall also pay to the Tenants $720.00.
This amount represents the costs that the
Tenants have incurred to repair items that the Landlord failed to address
including the gate lock repairs, the gas fireplace repairs and the electrical
repairs.




 
4.   
The Landlord
shall also pay to the Tenants $50.00 for the cost of filing the
application.
 
5.    The total amount
owing under this order is $14,970.00 which shall be paid
to the Tenants in full on or before January 16, 2022.
 
6.   
If the Landlord does
not pay the Tenants the full amount owing on or before January 16, 2022, the Landlord
will start to owe interest.
This will be simple interest
calculated from January 17, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
7.    The Landlord shall also
pay to the Board an
administration fine of $500.00 on or before January 16, 2022.
 
 
January 5, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Nicole Huneault
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board












 
Sonia Anwar-Ali
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street
West, 6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at
1-888-332-3234.

