Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-28
File number:	
SOT-18460-20

Citation:	French v Auger Properties Inc, 2022 CanLII 80891 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrskx>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 



 


Order under
Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act,
2006


 




 


File Number: SOT-18460-20




 
In the matter
of:


 
20
  GRANTON STREET HAMILTON ON L8S3C2


 




Between:


Refer to attached Schedule 2


Tenants




 


and


 




 


Auger Properties Inc


Landlord



 
 
 
The Tenants applied for an order
determining that the Landlords harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or
interfered with them, substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of
the rental unit or residential complex
by the Tenants or by a member
of their household
and withheld or deliberately
interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital service, care service, or food
that the Landlords are obligated to supply under the tenancy agreement.
 
This application was heard by
videoconference on December 1, 2021. The Tenant, Thomas Kromka (‘TK’),
attended the hearing
on behalf of the Tenants.
The Landlord’s Agent, Roger Auger (‘RA’), and the Landlord's Legal Representative, Paul
Startek, attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary matter
 
1.    
The Landlord’s representative submitted that RA is incorrectly named
as a Landlord in this
application. RA is not the owner of the rental unit.
 
2.    
The lease agreement between
the parties is signed by Auger Properties Inc. and Ryan Hindmarsh as landlords. Ryan
Hindmarsh is on title as the owner of the rental unit.
 
3.    
RA, as an agent
of Auger Properties Inc., collected rent,
dealt with maintenance issues, showed the rental unit to prospective tenants.
 
4.     Subsection 2(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act (the “Act”)
gives an expansive definition of “Landlord”. The
subsection includes the following:
 
(a)  
the owner of a rental unit or
any other person who permits
occupancy of a rental unit, other than a tenant
who occupies a rental unit in a residential complex
and who permits another
person to also occupy the unit or any part of the unit,




 
(b)  
the heirs, assigns, personal
representatives and successors in title of a person referred to in clause (a), and
 
(c)  
a
person, other than a tenant
occupying a rental
unit in a residential complex, who is entitled to possession of
the residential complex and who attempts to enforce any of the rights of a
landlord under a tenancy agreement or this Act, including the right to collect
rent
 
5.     Section 202 of the Act obligates the Board to ascertain the real substance of all transactions
and activities. It provides:
 
In making findings on an application, the Board shall ascertain
the real substance
of all transactions and activities relating to a residential complex or
a rental unit and the good faith of the participants and in doing so,
 
(a)  
may disregard the outward
form of a transaction or the separate
corporate existence of participants; and
 
(b)  
may have regard to the pattern
of activities relating
to the residential complex or the rental unit.
 
6.     Considering the expansive definition of landlord
in the Act and section 202 of the Act,
the Board finds that Auger Properties Inc., which was included in the lease as
a Landlord, is correctly named as the Landlord in this matter.
 
7.     However, RA is not a party to this application and is incorrectly named. RA is the agent of
the Landlord Auger Properties Inc. The evidence suggests that RA was acting in
the normal course of his duties with respect to the issues in this application.
Accordingly, RA is removed as a party to this application.
 
Hole in the Wall
 
8.     It was undisputed that the TK was required
to move out of his room, on or around
March 3, 2020 for a period of two weeks, to repair water damage caused
by plumbing issues. The repair issues are not part of this application, but form part of the
basis of a separate application before the Board.
 
9.     The flooring in TK’s
room was completed on March 19, 2020. TK was then informed that he could move back into his room but at that time he chose
not to because of a hole in the wall, in which piping and insulation were left
exposed.
 
10.  According to TK, he
wanted to wait for the hole
to be repaired before moving back in.
TK testified that the hole was approximately 20 inches by 20 inches
in size and in the middle
of the room so he could not fit both his bed and his desk in the room.
According to his own testimony, the reason he did not wish to move his
belongings back into the room was because it would be a “hassle” to have to
move in, then move out again when the hole was to be fixed.




 
11.  The Landlord submits
that the reason for hole remaining
in the room after March 19, 2020 was to allow a plumber to have
immediate access should there be further issues with the plumbing.
 
12.  While it may have been inconvenient and unsightly for TK to have a hole in the wall of his
room for a period of time, there was insufficient evidence to suggest that the
room was not habitable.
 
13.  The Board finds that the inconvenience of the opening
in the wall for TK was minor and does not amount to a substantial interference with the
Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of
the rental unit. A minor and brief inconvenience does not normally
result in an abatement
of rent: Pajelle Investments Ltd. v. Herbold, [1976] 2 SCR 520, 1975
CanLII 32 (SCC). Accordingly, no abatement of rent or other remedy is warranted
with respect to this allegation.
 
Text
Message
 
14.  On January 15, 2020,
RA sent a text to TK
informing him of a “lease
signing” with another group of prospective tenants
occurring that day at 7:00 p.m. for TK’s rental unit. TK testified that this was stressful and distressing
for him and the other Tenants.
They had to ascertain what
this meant and seek legal advice. TK testified that they felt they had to be in the rental unit that evening
in case there was a showing.
However, no one attended the rental unit for a showing that
evening.
 
15.  RA testified that Auger Properties Inc. manages over a
hundred properties. He indicated that on January 15, 2020 he was advised by his
staff that the text message was sent by mistake. RA states that he telephoned
TK shortly after the text was sent to inform him of the error. Although TK could not recall whether
such a telephone conversation took place,
he acknowledged that it was possible.
 
16.  The Board is not satisfied that the Landlord
substantially interfered with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit by sending the text message. Based on the evidence, the Board finds that
the text message was sent to the Tenants inadvertently. Once the mistake came to light,
RA acted immediately to advise the Tenants accordingly. The Landlord did not show
the rental unit to prospective tenants. Accordingly, this part of their
application must be dismissed.
 
Garbage in the Backyard
 
17.  TK testified that when the Tenants were shown the
property, the backyard was free of garbage and debris. However, some garbage
was left in the backyard shed when the Tenants
moved into the rental
unit, in May of 2019.
TK states that he assumed
that it was left by the previous tenants of the rental unit. Shortly
thereafter, an agent of the Landlord moved the garbage out of the shed and left
it in the backyard.
 
18.  TK advised RA about the garbage in the shed on May 17, 2019, and on May 24, 2019. On July 28, 2019, August 18, 2019,
and September 1, 2019, TK complained to the




 
Landlord about the garbage
from the shed that had been left in the backyard. The garbage was cleaned up sometime after
September 1, 2019.
 
19.  TK testified that approximately ten percent of the
backyard was covered by the trash and that the Tenants
could not fully use or enjoy the
backyard due to the garbage.
He testified that the
unsightliness of the garbage resulted in the Tenants not feeling comfortable
having guests in the backyard. In addition, neighbours would complain about the garbage.
 
20.  The Landlords’ position is that the garbage in
question was not garbage. Rather, the items
were materials that belong to the owner
of the property that was neatly stacked
in the shed. The Landlord submits that one of the Tenants or their
guests moved the materials out of the shed and placed the items in the
backyard.
 
21.  On any application before the Board, the person who
alleges any particular incident or event occurred has the burden
of leading sufficient evidence to establish
that it is more likely than
not that their version of events is true.
 
22.  In this case the Tenant submitted a picture of the
various items in the backyard which include
cardboard boxes, many pieces of lumber, a plastic Pepsi
bottle, a plastic bucket and planters. In our view, these
items were garbage. Had these items
been materials that belong to the owner, one would expect that the Landlord
would have acted immediately to collect them. Rather, these items were left out
in the backyard for approximately 3.5 months (May 17, 2019 to September 1,
2019).
 
23.  Given the TK’s testimony,
the picture of the garbage in the backyard, and the failure of the Landlord
to clean up the items,
the Board finds
that this substantially interfered with the
Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of
their rental unit contrary to section 22 of the Act.
 
24.  In determining the appropriate amount of rent
abatement for the period during which the garbage was in the backyard, relevant
factors include the fact that the Landlord did not respond appropriately and
effectively to the garbage issue until 3.5 months after the Landlord was first
notified of the issue, the items were unsightly to look at, the Tenants could
not enjoy the full use of the backyard or entertain guests in the summer time.
Taking all these factors into account
and similar cases decided by the Board, the Tenants are entitled to a five percent rent abatement for the 3.5 months period where the Landlord failed to
clean the items. This amounts to a total abatement of $612.50.
 
25.  This order contains
all of the reasons for our decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord shall pay to the Tenants
$612.50.
 
2.     The Landlord shall also pay to the Tenants $48.00 for the cost of filing their application.




 
3.    
The total amount the Landlord owes the Tenants
under this order is $660.50.
 
4.     The Landlord shall pay the Tenants the full amount
owing by February
28, 2022.
 
5.     If the Landlord does not pay the Tenants the full
amount owing by February 28, 2022., the Landlord will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from March 1, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
6.     The Tenants have the right, at any time, to collect the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
 
 
January 28, 2022

Date Issued                                                                          Anita Lovrich
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
 
 
 
 





 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7


Khalid Akram
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.




Schedule 2
 
File Number: SOT-18460-20
 
William French                                                             Konrad Kitrys
Thomas Kromka                                                           Thomas Medeiros
Adam Nortmann                                                           Andrew Pavan
Torre Spina

