Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-11
File number:	
SOT-15340-20

Citation:	Tugui v Miltowne Creek Investments Inc, 2022 CanLII 56622 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq16d>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
 
 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOT-15340-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


205, 174 BRONTE
STREET S MILTON ON L9T1Y8


 




Between:


Cristian Tugui


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Miltowne
Creek Investments Inc Bonnie Hoy


Landlords



 
 
 
 
Cristian Tugui
(the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that Bonnie Hoy and Miltowne
Creek Investments Inc (the 'Landlords') harassed, obstructed, coerced,
threatened or interfered with the Tenant.
 
This application was heard via video conference
on November 10, 2021.
 
The Tenant, the Tenant’s and the Landlord
Bonnie Hoy attended
the hearing. Preliminary
issue:
1.    
The Landlord’s Legal
Representative raised a preliminary issue as to whether Bonnie Hoy (‘B.H.’)
should be named as a party in this matter. The Landlord’s Legal Representative
stated that while B.H. signed the lease agreement to the rental unit with the
Tenant on behalf of the Landlord, she is only an agent to the Landlord for
limited purposes. B.H. stated that she looks after the collection of first and last month’s
rent, she shows rental units
and delivers notices.
 
2.    
The Landlord’s Legal Representative stated that at no
time was there a Landlord and Tenant relationship between the Tenant and B.H. and
that B.H was not a Landlord as defined under the Residential
Tenancies Act.
 
3.    
The Tenant’s
Legal Representative clarified
that rent was paid to a corporation and that
B.H. was the contact
person for the Tenant. Communications during the Tenant’s
tenancy came to and from B.H. and that B.H. dealt with all issues
involving the Tenant. B.H. stated
that the Landlord does not pay her for doing any further additional tasks but
that she was dealing with the Tenant’s issues out of the goodness of her heart.




 
 
 
4.    
The Tenant’s Legal
Representative states that most of the duties of a Landlord were performed by
B.H. as she signed the lease agreement, she accepted first and last month’s rent and she sent correspondence to the Tenant.
It was also suggested that
B.H. portrayed
herself as acting for the Landlord and she should remain as a party
to this application.
 
5.     The definition of “Landlord” under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) states: “Landlord” includes,
(a)   the owner
of a rental unit or any other person who permits occupancy of a
rental unit, other than a tenant
who occupies a rental unit in a residential complex
and who permits another
person to also occupy the unit or any part of the unit,
 
(b)  
the heirs,
assigns, personal representatives and successors in title of a person
referred to in clause (a), and;
 
(c)  
a person,
other than a tenant occupying a rental unit in a residential complex, who is entitled to possession of
the residential complex and who attempts to enforce any of the rights of a Landlord
under a tenancy agreement or this Act, including the right to collect rent
 
 
6.    
The definition of
“Landlord” is not intended to be exhaustive.
There may be more than one person or company that meets the definition of a landlord
of a rental unit. As stated
in the Board’s guidelines, depending on the facts in an application, the
registered owner of a building and the property manager having decision making
authority with respect to renting units and having responsibility for the day
to day operation of the building, may both be landlords for the purposes of the
Act.
 
7.    
Pursuant to section 29(1)4 of the Act, a tenant can bring an application for “an order determining that the landlord, superintendent or agent of the landlord has harassed,
obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the tenant during the
tenant’s occupancy of the rental unit.”.
 
8.    
Based on the evidence
before me and pursuant to the definition of a “Landlord” under the Act,
I find that B.H. is a landlord as she was dealing with the Tenant, she
collected rent and was actively portraying herself to be the Landlord during
the Tenant’s tenancy by sending communications to the Tenant.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The rental
complex is described as being three floors, with the Tenant’s
rental unit being on the main floor. There were Tenants above and below him on
the lower level.                                                                                                                                      The Tenant moved into the rental unit on
December 8, 2019.




 
2.    
The Tenant says that the Landlord
harassed, coerced, threatened or interfered with him
on occasions in March, 2020, on May 15, 2020 and on June 2, 2020.
 
March, 2020 incidents:
 
 
3.    
The Tenant testified that he received
a phone call from B.H. on a date in the beginning of March, 2020 regarding a complaint B.H.
had received about noise coming from the
Tenant’s rental
unit. The Tenant responded that he
was not making noise as he was doing his taxes therefore the noise complaint was unfounded. The Tenant stated
that he contacted B.H. a few
days later who confirmed that she had determined that the noise came from
someone else and that the B.H. never apologized for accusing the Tenant of
making noise.
 
4.    
The Tenant also
testified that there was an incident where he was in his apartment with friends when the police attended. The Tenant stated that the police were outside his door waiting to hear music as they had
received a noise complaint but that they did not hear any noise and
subsequently left the complex with no charges laid.
 
5.    
The Tenant stated that
he believed the neighbours below him were the people who contacted the police to complain
so he went downstairs to talk to them. He testified that he told the downstairs neighbours
that if they had any issues to let him know as there was no reason to contact
the police. The Tenant stated that B.H. later contacted him stating that the
downstairs neighbours had complained about noise coming from the Tenant and
that if the Tenant had any
issues with neighbours to address
them with her.
 
6.    
As a result of these incidents, the Tenant claimed
that he felt hopeless and that no matter
what he said, his side of the story was not listened to and would not be taken
into consideration by B.H. The Tenant stated in cross-examination that he felt he was listened
to by the police but not by B.H.
 
 
May 15, 2020 incident:
 
7.    
The Tenant stated that his fiancé,
his fiancé’s sister and boyfriend came over for a visit when another neighbouring tenant
approached the three visitors and accused them of speeding when they came into
the rental complex. At the time, the
Tenant was in his apartment but once the Tenant was notified of this
altercation, the Tenant chose to engage with the other neighbouring tenant by leaving
his apartment and going outside.
 
8.    
The Tenant stated that
the neighbouring tenant said derogatory words to him and there was inappropriate language including racial
slurs towards his fiancé.
The Tenant testified that these words were
personally offensive. The Tenant testified that he contacted B.H. via email on
May 15, 2020 to report the incident and asked her to contact the neighbouring
tenant to convey that the neighbouring tenant should not use that kind of
language. The Tenant stated that B.H. responded the same day at 9:00pm stating
that she would contact the neighbouring tenant as requested. B.H. confirmed in email




 
correspondence dated
May 16, 2020 that she contacted the neighbouring
tenant and that the neighbouring Tenant had also emailed her to complain
about the Tenant.
 
 
 
Incident of June 2, 2020:
 
9.    
The Tenant testified
that as he was driving out of the rental complex, another tenant made gestures
towards him, yelled
at him to slow his motor vehicle
down and then said
that he was using “Daddy’s money”. A
video taken of this incident by the Tenant was viewed at the hearing.
 
10.  The Tenant stated that he contacted police as a result of this incident
who attended and spoke with the parties. An occurrence report which was tendered at the hearing stated
that the Tenant contacted the police to report a verbal altercation, that no
threats were uttered by either party and that the Tenant wanted no further
contact with that other tenant and wished for police to contact the other
tenant about the incident.
 
11.  The Tenant further complained to B.H. in an
email dated June 2, 2020 stating that the other tenant had harassed him with
ageist comments. The Tenant testified that B.H. responded to him
within half an hour by calling
him and that B.H. had said that the
police were going to deal with the incident. B.H. also told the Tenant that she had numerous complaints from
other tenants about the Tenant. The
Tenant testified that as a result of this incident, he felt hopeless, unsafe,
did not want to step out of his rental unit at night and was more cautious.
 
12.  The Tenant stated that he was harassed
because of the exchange of words with other tenants, that the comments
made to him were racist,
discriminatory and that B.H.
did not respond to these incidents
appropriately. The Tenant stated that
he had to contact the police as he
received no assistance from B.H. Each time
he contacted B.H., the Tenant felt blamed and that his concerns were ignored. The Tenant testified that as a result of
not being listened to by B.H., he vacated the rental unit.
 
13.  In cross-examination, the Tenant testified
that as a result of the neighbour yelling at him to slow down as he drove into and out of the complex,
the Tenant chose to
stop his motor vehicle and interact with the neighbour. When asked why he stopped his motor
vehicle, the Tenant stated that he was not going to just ignore the comments
being made.
 
14.  In cross-examination, the Tenant confirmed that the Landlord
and B.H. did not call him
any names but that when he did talk to B.H., he felt he did not have an
opportunity to express his opinions to her and that B.H. did not listen to him.
 
Evidence from Tenant’s
Fiance, Maham Zuberi:
 
15.  The fiancé of the Tenant,
Maham Zuberi (‘M.Z.’) provided evidence that essentially did not differ from the Tenant. She claimed that she was present during some of the incidents and that
B.H. did not address the Tenant’s concerns. M.Z. testified that B.H. was defensive and appeared to
protect other neighbours. B.H. was
asked to mediate




 
issues and speak with the other tenants but she did not help the Tenant.
M.Z. submitted that B.H. had
made a judgment against the Tenant and that B.H. would not assist because the
Tenant was perceived to be the problem.
 
 
Landlord’s evidence:
 
16.  B.H. denied all claims by the Tenant and
testified that other tenants called and approached her numerous times
to complain about
the excessive noise,
loud voices and loud music being played from the
Tenant’s rental unit at night and that his driving behaviours in the complex
were unsafe and dangerous.
 
17.  B.H. stated that she received numerous
complaints from other tenants in the residential complex regarding the Tenant
almost immediately after he commenced his tenancy. B.H. testified that there was one occasion
in March, 2020 where due to complaints, she personally attended the Tenant’s
rental unit and could not get his attention despite knocking and pounding on
the door due to the excessive noise coming from his rental unit.
 
18.  B.H. confirmed that due the escalation of
the complaints, she told the residents in the complex that they all had to try
to get along but that if they wished to vacate, they could do so. She tried to speak to the Tenant but as he
would not answer his door, she sent correspondence to the Tenant with an option to vacate the rental unit. B.H. testified that one tenant, who lived underneath the Tenant, and another in
the complex moved out because of the Tenant’s conduct and behaviour.
 
19.  B.H. also stated that she approached the
Tenant regarding his driving behaviour in the complex to which the Tenant responded
in a very demeaning manner.
B.H. testified that as
a result of the complaints regarding the Tenant,
she tried to have people
be respectful but that the Tenant
was completely adversarial with everyone. B.H. testified that she did
discontinue a telephone conversation with the Tenant as the Tenant was using
frequent obscenities and called people inappropriate names. Prior to discontinuing that call, B.H.
told the Tenant that she would speak to the Tenant when the Tenant spoke to her
in a normal tone and figured the Tenant would call her back when he had calmed
down.
 
20.  B.H. testified that she has been in
property management for 36 years and has won awards for her volunteerism and
career. She states that she tries to
deal compassionately with all parties and did not treat the Tenant any
differently than any other Tenants, she did not minimalize
the Tenant’s complaints despite how the Tenant treated her.
 
 
 
The Law/Analysis:
 
21.  Section 23 of the Act
states: “A landlord
shall not harass,
obstruct, coerce, threaten
or interfere with a tenant”.




 
22.  While the term “harassment” is not defined
in the Act, it
is generally taken to be a course of conduct that a reasonable person
knows or ought to know would be unwelcome.
 
23.  The conduct need not be more than one
instance and a Tenant is not required to demonstrate a pattern of behaviour in order to show that a
Landlord has breached the Act.
 
24.  I find that the Tenant
did not offer persuasive evidence that the Landlord, the Landlord’s
superintendent or the Landlord’s agent harassed him for the reasons that
follow.
 
25.  It is clear that the Tenant had some confrontations with other tenants
in the complex and that
there was ongoing animosity among the other tenants. Moreover, the use of derogatory and racist language toward the
Tenant by other tenants is clearly inappropriate and was understandably
upsetting to the Tenant. However, the
question before the Board is whether B.H.’s and the Landlord’s conduct toward
the Tenant constitutes harassment.
 
26.  In this case, I am satisfied that B.H. followed
up with all parties immediately following any
incidents reported by the Tenant. While
the Tenant may have taken issue with B.H.’s “tone” or manner of communication,
there is nothing to establish that this constituted harassing treatment. In fact, the evidence suggests
that B.H. took the Tenant’s
concerns seriously as she followed up with other tenants immediately
following the reported incidents. In addition, there was nothing improper or
harassing about B.H. informing the Tenant that other tenants had made noise
complaints.
 
27.  I am not convinced that the incidents as described by the Tenant
caused him to have the feelings he described of hopelessness, harassment and not being taken seriously by the Landlord and B.H.. As was supported from the video of the
June, 2020 incident, I find that the Tenant was adversarial and confrontational
in at least one of the alleged incidents.
 
28.  I find that there was insufficient evidence
to establish that the Landlord harassed the Tenant. As this is the Tenant’s
application, he bears the burden of proving
the events on a balance of probabilities and, in the
absence of any sufficient evidence to support his testimony, I am not satisfied
on a balance of probabilities that the Tenant has met his burden, that the
Landlord and B.H. harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with
the Tenant.
 
29.  The Tenant’s application is therefore denied.
 
30.  This order contains
all of the reasons in this matter
and no further reasons will be issued.




 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Tenant’s
application is dismissed.
 
 
 
January 11, 2022 Date Issued
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West,
6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

