Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-08
File number:	
SOT-10453-19-RV

Citation:	SOT-10453-19-RV (Re), 2022 CanLII 97429 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsjg7>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 21.2 of the
Statutory Powers
Procedure Act
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOT-10453-19-RV
 
 
 
Review Order
 
AH (the 'Tenant') applied for an order
determining that MS (the
'Landlord'), gave a notice of termination in bad faith.
 
This application was resolved
by order SOT-10453-19 issued on October
19, 2021.
 
On November 17, 2021, the Tenant
requested a review of the order alleging she was not reasonably able to participate in the hearing because
she did not receive the Notice of Hearing.
 
On November 23, 2021, the Board issued interim
order SOT-10453-19-RV-IN directing the request to a review hearing for determination.
 
The Tenant’s request was heard by way of video conference on February 1, 2022. The Tenant
and the Landlord attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
Tenant’s Request to Review
 
1.       
The Tenant alleges that she had no intention of abandoning her application and would
have attended the hearing on October 13, 2021 had she known about it. The Tenant testified she never received
the Notice of Hearing.
 
2.       
The Landlord did not challenge the Tenants evidence.
 
3.       
Based on the uncontested evidence
of the Tenant, on a balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that she was not reasonably able to participate in the hearing
because she did not receive the Notice of Hearing.




 
4.       
The Tenant’s request for review is granted.
 
New Hearing of the Tenants
T5 Application
 
Tenant’s Evidence
 
5.       
The Tenant testified that on March
10, 2019, the Landlord served her an N12 Notice of Termination (N12 notice). The N12 notice
stated the Landlord
required possession of the
rental unit for his own personal residential occupation. The N12 notice contained a termination date of May 31, 2029. The
Landlord’s application for the N12 notice was adjudicated by the Board and an
order for eviction was granted.
 
6.       
The Tenant testified that she believes
the Landlord gave the N12 notice in bad faith because it is her position that
he never moved into the rental unit. The
Tenant alleges that she knows this because of her friend who is a tenant sill
living in the residential complex. This
friend told her that the Landlord never moved into the rental unit. The Tenant
entered in evidence 3 text messages from her friend. The text messages are dated June 23, 2019, August 11, 2019, and
January 20, 2020. In the June text,
the Tenant was advised that the Landlord had mot moved into the rental unit. In
the August text message, the Tenant was advised the Landlord had not yet moved
in and tore out the carpet in the rental unit. In the January text message, the
Tenant was advised that the Landlord had not moved into the rental unit and was
working hard to get it ready for his residential occupation. The Tenant advised
that her friend
was not willing
to testify on her behalf at the hearing because she
still lives in the residential complex and worries about retaliation from the
Landlord.
 
7.       
The Tenant further testified that on one occasion she visited the residential complex
and peeked into the window of the rental unit and saw that the Landlord
had not moved into the unit. The Tenant said she did this about one month after
she moved out of the rental
unit.
 
8.       
The Tenant further believes
the Landlord wanted
her out of the rental unit so he could
re- rent it for more money. The Tenant also believes that the Landlord
wanted her out of the rental unit because she complained
about it being cold and drafty.
 
Landlord’s Evidence
 
9.       
The Landlord testified that he
moved into the rental unit when the Tenant moved out. However, due to the smell
in the unit and the amount of garbage left by the Tenant, he had to complete
some renovations. He started by
removing the carpets. He could not
dedicate full time hours to the renovations as his employment regularly took
him out of town for extended
periods of time. He completed
the renovations when he was home on some weekends.
 
10.    The Landlord testified that because of all his work
travel, it may have appeared that he was not living
in the rental unit, when in fact he did move in.
The Landlord testified
that he lived in the
rental unit for more than one year. It was his home base while travelling out of town for work. The Tenant did not challenge this evidence.




 
11.   
The Landlord testified that he did
not re-rent the unit to new tenants until December 1, 2020, being more than one year after the Tenant moved out. In support of his testimony, the Landlord entered in
evidence a copy of the lease agreement with the new tenants which started on
December 1, 2020. The Tenant did not
challenge this evidence.
 
12.    In support of his position
that he did move into the
rental unit, the Landlord also entered
in evidence a copy of his driver’s license which has the address and unit
number of the rental unit indicated as his
home address. The Tenant did not
challenge this evidence.
 
Findings
 
13.   
Having considered the evidence of
both parties, I am not satisfied on a balance of probabilities that the Tenant
proved that the Landlord gave her an N12 notice
in bad faith. In making this finding, I considered the Landlord’s compelling
evidence of his driver’s license which contained the rental unit as his home
address. Further, the Landlord’s explanation
as to why he was not often seen in the rental unit by the Tenant’s
friend living in the
residential complex was reasonable. I
accept his unchallenged evidence that his employment regularly took him out of
town for prolonged periods which may have given the appearance that he was not
living in the rental unit.
 
14.   
Further, I did not find the Tenant’s evidence compelling. I say this because
the Tenant’s friend who allegedly has firsthand knowledge that the Landlord did
not move into the rental unit would
not be a witness at the hearing. This makes me query the legitimacy of the claims made in the text messages
that the Landlord
never moved into the rental unit.
If the Tenant’s friend did not want to be a witness at the hearing, an
alternative could have been for the Tenant’s friend to sign an affidavit or
declaration of her alleged first hand knowledge that the Landlord allegedly did
not move into the rental unit.
 
15.   
As the Tenant has not met the burden
of proof in establishing
that the Landlord gave her an N12 notice in bad faither, the
Tenant’s application must be dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.       
The Tenant’s request to review is granted.
 
2.       
Order SOT-10453-19 issued on October 19, 2021 is cancelled and replaced by the
following:
 
3.       
The Tenant’s application is dismissed.
 
 




February 8, 2022 Date Issued
Southern-RO
119 King Street West, 6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7



 
 
Dawn Wickett
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board




 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

