Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
SOT-20192-21

Citation:	Farrell-Kelly v Subworks Inc, 2022 CanLII 54149 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpx50>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SOT-20192-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


UPPER LEVEL,
279 BONAVENTURE DR HAMILTON ON L9C7B2


 




Between:


Lucinda Farrell-Kelly Joshua Farrell-Kelly


Tenants




 


 
And


 




 


Subworks
Inc Omre Taha


Landlords



 
Lucinda
Farrell-Kelly and Joshua Farrell-Kelly (the 'Tenants') applied for an order
determining that Omre Taha and Subworks Inc (the 'Landlords') harassed,
obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with them; entered the rental
unit illegally; altered the locking system on a door giving entry to the rental unit or residential complex without giving them replacement keys; substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex
by the Tenants or by a member of their household; and withheld or deliberately interfered
with the reasonable supply of a vital
service, care service, or food that the Landlords are obligated to supply under
the tenancy agreement.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 6, 2021 at
11:07am.
 
Only the Tenants attended
the hearing. The Tenants were represented by Joseph Kazubek.
 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Issues:
1.    
At the beginning of the
hearing, the Tenants’ were made aware that included in the Tenants’ T2 application were maintenance issues which were not appropriate to this application. The Tenants’ representative advised that a separate
T6 application had been filed and that he was prepared to proceed with
the allegations relevant to the T2 application.
 
2.    
It was also brought to
the Tenants’ attention that some of the issues raised exceeded the limitation
period as set out in subsection 29(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
as they occurred more than one year past the date of filing. The Tenants’ representative elected to proceed with the hearing and explained that any issues
that were outside
of the limitation period
were solely to set the context of this tenancy.




 
3.    
With respect to the
calculation of the limitation period, as the application was filed on February
22, 2021, the Board
can consider breaches
included in the application
that occurred as early as August 22, 2019 and November 30, 2019, the day the
Tenants vacated; this is beyond the normal one year due to the suspension on
limitation periods that was in effect between March 16, 2020 and September 13,
2020 pursuant to O. Reg. 73/20 and 457/20.
 
T2 APPLICATION
 
4.    
By way of background, the residential complex is a house
in which the Tenants
resided on the upper level 3-bedroom unit. The Tenants moved into the unit on June 1st, 2019 and moved out on
November 30, 2019.
 
5.     As part of their T2 application, the Tenants
allege the following:
 
a) 
Collapsed shower
ceiling;
 
b) 
Lock out and illegal
entry;
 
c) 
Blockage of the driveway
and unit;
 
d) 
Car Damage
specifically a flat tire and leftover debris;
 
e) 
No Vital Services – Heat, Air Conditioning and Water; and
 
f)  Harassment. Collapsed Shower
ceiling
6.    
The Tenants testified
that during the summer of 2019 they had noticed a crack in the ceiling of the
bathroom where the shower was located and informed the Landlords; on August 28,
2019, the Landlords attended the premises and
addressed this issue by nailing
plywood to the affected areas. On October
20, 2019, the ceiling of the
shower collapsed minutes after the second-named Tenant had taken a shower. The
Tenants informed the Landlord of this issue who attended the premises shortly
thereafter to clean up the debris in the tub but never repaired the ceiling.
 
7.    
Photographs were
submitted into evidence that show the aftermath of the ceiling collapsing, including a large area of the ceiling
swollen and exposed.
The impact of the ceiling collapse resulted in the
Tenants not being able to use the bathroom to shower and having to displace their children and themselves to their grandmother’s place in Stoney Creek.
 
8.    
Based on the evidence
before the Board, we find that the Landlords have substantially interfered with
the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit by the Tenants for the period
between October 20, 2019 and November 30, 2019. Any remedies flowing
from this breach
will be considered in the remedies section below.




 
Lock out and Illegal
entry
 
9.    
The Tenants
testified that at some point between
October 20, 2019 and October
26, 2019, while they were staying at with their grandmother’s place, the
Landlords entered their unit without any notice and boarded up a majority of
the windows and doors.
 
10.  This was discovered by the Tenants
on October 26, 2019 when they
returned to the rental unit to retrieve more clothing
to find the windows boarded up as well as the front door and the side entrance
door, barring their access to the rental unit.
 
11.  The Tenants provided
photographs to support
their assertions that the boards were screwed on from the interior of the
unit. They testified that at no point did the Landlords serve a notice of entry
or inform them that they would be entering the rental unit and/or installing the boards – which they
had previously requested since this was not part of the
Landlords’ standard practice. Furthermore, there was no communication from the
Landlords about work being done to the unit or when the Tenants should return.
 
12.  To access the unit, the Tenants broke the
side door and gained entry. Their neighbours
told them that the Landlords
had attended the unit on October 25, 2019
and boarded up the windows
and doors with the second-named Landlord’s brother.
 
13.  Between
then and the day they moved out of the rental
unit; these boards remained
intact; the Tenants testified that
they did not converse with the Landlords about this issue as the relationship between the parties
had broken down.
The impact of these
plywood boards on the windows reduced the daylight from entering their unit,
the windows could not be opened, and it made the property appear to be
abandoned.
 
14.  Based on the uncontested evidence
before the Board,
we are satisfied that not only
were the Tenants locked out of the rental unit, but the Landlords entered the
rental unit without notice and not in the
case of an emergency. In doing so, the Landlords breached sections 24, 25
and 26 of the of Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (Act) which state:
 
24.A landlord shall not alter the locking system on a door giving
entry to a rental unit or residential complex
or cause the locking system
to be altered during the tenant’s occupancy of the rental unit without
giving the tenant replacement keys.
 
25.A  
landlord may enter a rental unit only in accordance with section 26 or 27;
 
26.(1) A landlord may enter a rental unit at any time without
written notice,
 
(a)  
in cases of emergency; or
 
(b)  
if the tenant consents
to the entry at the time of entry.
 
15. 
An
illegal entry can have a significant impact on tenants that lasts well beyond
the moment in time when the entry occurs.
So, it is inappropriate to calculate abatement




 
solely based on the rent paid for the few minutes, hours or days
during which the illegal entry occurs.
This was implicitly recognized by the Divisional Court in
Wrona
v. Toronto Community
Housing Corp., [2007] O.J. No. 423 (Ont. Div. Ct.).
 
16.  One of the elements present in Wrona was
the fact that the landlord knew or ought to have known getting the notice of
entry right was important to the tenant. The Landlords in this case knew or
ought to have known about the requirements for entering the rental unit in a
legal manner and how upset the Tenants would be by the Landlords’ illegal entry and therefore interference with
their privacy – particularly since
they had been requesting these
notices from the Landlords, but the Landlords went ahead anyway.
 
17.  Not only did the Landlords
enter the unit without notice, they barred their access to
the unit without receiving a notice of termination or confirmation that they
had vacated the rental unit, displacing their family.
 
18.  Having considered the above circumstances, we find the Tenants
are entitled to
$2,000.00 in
damages for these incidents. We say this because the Tenants had a lease
agreement with the Landlords that gave them the right to occupy the rental
unit, which the Landlords unilaterally interfered with by entering
it illegally, without
a notice, without their consent, and without an emergency and boarding
it up.
 
19. 
The issue of rent abatement
for the impact of this on the Tenants
will be considered in the remedies section below.
 
Blockage of the driveway
and unit
 
20.  The Tenants testified
that the Landlords constantly left
their equipment, trucks
and garbage dumpsters in the driveway of the rental unit, blocking
access to the side door – which was their only way to access the unit since the
place had been boarded up. The Tenants believed this was a tactic to block
access to the unit.
 
21.  The effect of these items in the driveway
included attracting vermin as well as skunks
and rodents. At times the Landlords would park the vehicles in such a way
that the Tenants could not access their parking and would need to find
alternate parking at their expense. No dates were provided for these incidents.
 
22.  The Tenants submitted photographs showing a
large yellow dumpster blocking access to the side door on the driveway
and a large trailer parked
in front of this dumpster occupying a significant
amount of space on the driveway.
 
23.  Based on the uncontested evidence before
the Board, we are satisfied that the Landlords substantially interfered with
the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the premises, particularly their ability
to park at the rental unit and access their entrance. As no specific
dates were provided
for these incidents, we will consider the date of the picture as the
date of the incident.
 
Car Damage –
Flat Tire and Debris




 
24.  The Tenants also testified that due to the
construction equipment left by the Landlords
on their driveway in September 2019, there was considerable amount of debris there
as well including nails and screws that resulted in a flat tire on the Tenants’
vehicle. A photograph of this tire
was submitted by the Tenants.
 
25.  The Tenants testified
that they had to purchase
a new tire to replace the one that was damaged from the nail. This cost
the Tenants $120.00 for which they seek reimbursement from the Landlords.
 
26. 
When the Tenants confronted the Landlords about
cleaning up the driveway, the Landlords refused to do so indicating
that it wasn’t their responsibility.
 
27.  Aside from the photograph of the flat tire, no further evidence
was submitted to the
Board indicating the state of the debris in the driveway or the screws that
were being left by the Landlords. The photographs submitted to the Board do not
show debris or nails or refuse left on the driveway. As such, we find the
evidence is insufficient to establish this claim and so it must be dismissed.
 
No Vital Services: Heat, Air Conditioning and Water
 
28.  The Tenants testified that the heating and
air conditioning was an ongoing concern from the beginning of their tenancy.
Although the thermostat was in their unit, the Tenants said it did not work.
The air conditioning did not work during the heat waves in the summertime (outside of
limitation period) and in the fall, the heat system would not work.
 
29.  The Tenants submitted into evidence, a photo dated October 16, 2019 as evidence of the thermostat showing a
current temperature of 68 degrees but set for 73 degrees. The first-named
Tenant testified that she tried to contact the Landlord, however, he would only
respond to her husband (the second-named Tenant).
 
30.  The second-named Tenant initially testified that the hot water in the rental unit was
not working for 2-3 weeks; later his evidence changed with the length of time
the water was out, being four days effective September 12, 2019. No
further evidence was submitted regarding why the water was shut off and by
whom.
 
31. 
Subsection
2(1) of the Act defines vital services as “hot or cold water, fuel,
electricity, gas or, during the part of each year prescribed by the regulations, heat.”
 
32.  Subsection
4(1) of the Ontario Regulation 516/06 under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 sets heat to be a
vital service between September 1 to June 15 every year and requires the
temperature to be set at a minimum of 20 degrees Celsius which is equivalent to
68 degrees Fahrenheit.
 
33.  Based on the evidence before
the Board, air conditioning is not considered a vital service
under the Act and is outside the limitation period, so this claim must be
dismissed. With respect to the issue of heat not working, the evidence before
the Board indicates that the temperature was set at the minimum amount required




 
under the regulations and as such, we cannot find the Landlords to be in breach of subsection 21(1) of the Act as it
relates to heat.
 
34.  Finally, with respect to the issue of a
lack of hot water, we find the evidence is insufficient to establish the Landlords were in
breach of subsection 21(1) of the Act
as it relates to hot water. We say this based on the unclear evidence from the
Tenants of the length of the water shut off, the reason and who shut it off.
 
Harassment
 
35.  The Tenants evidence
about the Landlords’ behaviour was somewhat inconsistent and vague. The Tenants
testified the communications with the Landlord were confrontational and there
was no communication with the Landlords. At one point during the hearing, the
Tenant stated that communications were done
through the Tenant’s mother.
 
36.  As well, the Tenants stated
that on one occasion the Landlords told the first-named Tenant to “f” off – however,
the Tenants could not confirm the date of the incident and we find that this
incident, on its own, fails to substantiate harassment.
 
37.  The Tenants also provided statement about
an employee of the Landlords living in the basement
who would randomly turn off the
heat or the internet.
The Tenants did not provide any details, dates or
times the incidents took place.
 
38.  Section 23 of the Act states that a
landlord shall not harass, obstruct, coerce, threaten or interfere with a tenant. While the word harassment itself is not defined
under the Act but a commonly accepted
definition is harassment is conduct that a
reasonable landlord knows or ought to know the reasonable tenant would find
upsetting and objectionable.
 
39.  The Board finds
that with regard
to the alleged harassment claim,
the Tenants did not provide sufficient details to support a finding that there were any
events between August 22, 2019 to November 2019 that constituted harassment.
 
Remedies
 
40.  The Tenants requested the following
remedies in the T2 Application:
 
a)   
A rent abatement of $14,400.00.
 
b)   
An administrative fine;
 
c)   
The replacement of lost or damaged property
valued at $107.00;
 
d)   
Moving and storage expenses
in the amount of $3,536.00; and
 
e)   
Out-of-pocket expenses
totalling $4,528.00.
 
41. 
An abatement
of rent is a contractual remedy based on the principle
that if a tenant is paying
100% of the rent then the tenant
should be getting
100% of what they are




 
paying for and if they are not getting that, then a tenant should
be entitled to abatement equal to the difference in
value.
 
42.  We believe a 30% abatement of rent is
appropriate to fairly address the level of substantial interference that was experienced by the Tenants for the issues of the collapsed shower ceiling
and the blockage of the driveway for the one day in September 2019 and for the period October 20, 2019 to November 30, 2019. This equals $2,209.20.
 
43.  The Tenants requested the Board order the
Landlords to pay an administrative fine to the Board.
We are not satisfied that it is appropriate
to order the Landlords to pay
a fine to the Board in this application. An administrative fine is a remedy to be used by they Board to
encourage compliance with the Act and is not normally imposed unless a
landlord has shown a blatant disregard for the Act and other remedies will not provide
adequate deterrence and compliance. In
our view the
remedies awarded in this order
will sufficiently encourage
the Landlords to comply
with the Act.
 
44.  The requested remedy of ordering the
Landlords to pay for the cost to replace property that was damaged, namely a
winter coat that “was damaged in the chaos of the move”. At the hearing, there were no submissions made by the Tenants on
any personal items that were allegedly
damaged by the Landlords’ conduct. In fact, the
statement made in the Tenants’
T2 application suggests
this damage may have
been the result of the Tenants’ conduct during the moving process. As such,
this request must be dismissed.
 
45.  With respect to the request
for moving and storage expenses of $3,536.00, this
request is denied. No evidence was submitted to the Board in support of these
expenses such as invoices, receipts or statements from the storage company.
 
46.  Finally, with respect to the request for
$4,528.07 in compensation for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Tenants
from the actions of the Landlords, this request is granted in part and denied
in part. The Tenants led no evidence with respect to out-
of-pocket expenses with the exception of security cameras they purchased and
installed to ensure their property was secured after the Landlords’ illegal
entry and lock out. We find it appropriate to award this cost of $146.25.
 
47. 
This order contains all of the reasons for the decision
within it. No further reasons shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlords shall pay to the Tenants
$2,209.20 in rent abatement for the
collapsed shower ceiling and driveway blockage.
 
2.    
The Landlords shall pay
to the Tenants $146.25 which is the out of pocket expenses the Tenants
have incurred for security while they were unable to reside
in the rental unit.




 
3.    
The Landlords
shall pay to the Tenants
$2,000.00 for the illegal entry
and lock out that took place between October 20 –
26, 2019.
 
4.    
The Landlords
shall also pay to the Tenants $48.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
5.     The total amount
the Landlords owes to the Tenants is
$4,403.45.
 
6.    
The Landlords
shall pay the Tenants the full amount
owing on or before January 16, 2022.
 
7.    
If the Landlords do not pay the Tenants
the full amount
owing by January 16, 2022
they will owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from January 17, 2022
at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
8.
 
 
January 5, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Nicole Huneault
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board












 





 
Southern-RO
119 King Street
West, 6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7


Sonia Anwar-Ali
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

