Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-08
File number:	
SOT-21144-21

Citation:	Toussaint v Hale, 2022 CanLII 97408 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsjgb>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 



 


Order under
Section 57
Residential Tenancies Act,
2006


 




 


File Number:
SOT-21144-21




 
In the matter
  of:


 
5473 SCHUELLER CRESCENT BURLINGTON ON L7L3T1


 




Between:


Amanda Toussaint


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Anthony Edward Hale


Landlord



 
 
 
Amanda Toussaint (the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that Anthony Edward Hale (the 'Landlord'), gave a notice of
termination in bad faith.
 
This application was heard
by video conference on January 26, 2022.
 
The Tenant, the Tenant’s
personal representative Matthew
Toussaint, the Landlord
and the Landlord's Legal
Representative Ashley Friel attended the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.     
The Tenant seeks an order determining that a notice
of termination was served in bad
faith.
 
2.     
The parties agree that (i) A.H. is the former Landlord
and (ii) A.H. served an N12 Notice
to End Your Tenancy for purchaser’s own use on the Tenant, with a
termination date of December 31, 2020.
 
3.     
According to A.H., he listed the property for sale while
the Tenant was occupying the rental
unit. A.H. submits that at the time he and the parties to the contract F.D. and
P.A. (the ‘Purchasers’) entered into the Agreement for Purchase and Sale, the
Purchasers assured
A.H. that they personally required the Tenant’s
rental unit for residential purposes.
 
4.     
There is no dispute
that the Tenant
vacated the unit on December
31, 2020 pursuant
to the N12 Notice.
 
5.     
The Tenant claims that A.H. gave the notice
in bad faith because the Purchasers never moved into the rental unit after
the property was sold. As a remedy, she seeks a rent abatement of $15,600.00,
constituting 12 months of rent at $1,300.00 per month, and
$6,150.00 for expenses related
to moving and storage.




 
6.     
A.H. denies serving the N12 Notice
in bad faith, and requests
that the application be dismissed.
 
7.     
He submits that, based on the
statements made to him by the Purchasers, he had no reason to doubt that the
Purchasers planned to move into the unit. A.H. had no communications with the
Purchasers after the property was sold. It seems that he was unaware that the Purchasers had not moved into the Tenant’s unit until receiving a copy of the Tenant’s application.
 
8.     
The Landlord's Legal Representative submitted into evidence
the Agreement of Purchase
and Sale. She referred to ‘Schedule C’ in the Agreement, a condition of which
states as follows:
 
“The Purchaser acknowledges that the property is subject to an existing
tenancy agreement. The Vendor agrees to have the requisite notice in
accordance with the Residential Tenancies Act (RTA) served on the tenants
indicating that the purchaser requires possession for their own use... The
Purchaser agrees to provide a Statutory
Declaration confirming their intention to occupy the premises
for their personal use…”
 
9.     
A.H. takes the position
that his actions,
which are in compliance with the Agreement, cannot constitute bad faith. He submits
the Tenant has failed to establish that he has acted in bad faith.
 
Analysis
 
10. Subsection 57(1)(b) of the Act provides as follows:
 
The Board may make an order
described in subsection (3) if, on application by a former tenant of a rental
unit, the Board determines that,
 
…
 
(b) the
landlord gave a notice of termination under section 49 in bad faith, the former
tenant vacated the rental unit as a result of the notice or as a result of an
application to or order made by the Board based on the notice, and no person
referred to in clause 49 (1) (a), (b), (c) or (d) or 49(2)(a)(b)(c) or (d)
occupied the rental unit within
a reasonable time after the former tenant
vacated the rental
unit.
 
11. In order for the
Tenant’s application to be successful, the Tenant must satisfy the three-
pronged test under subsection 57(1)(b) of the Act:
 
(1)  The N12 was served
in bad faith;
(2) The
Tenant moved out of the
rental unit in accordance with the
N12 Notice; and
(3) The
Purchasers did not move into the
rental unit within
a reasonable time after the Tenant vacated the unit.




 
12. Regarding (2) and (3), above,
the parties do not disagree
that these elements
have been satisfied. The
Tenant vacated the rental unit by the termination date set out in the N12
Notice, and there is some evidence
that the Purchasers may not
have personally moved into
the unit.
 
13. The question is whether the Tenant has established the first part of the test, namely
that
A.H. served the N12 Notice in bad faith.
 
14. At the time of the service of the N12 Notice, A.H. was
legally bound by the terms in ‘Schedule C’ of the Agreement of Purchase and Sale. There is no dispute that A.H. fulfilled the condition of serving the
Tenant with the N12 Notice for purchaser’s own use. Except for a situation in
which the Tenant failed to move out by the termination date, any obligation
A.H. may have had to the Purchasers and to the Tenant with respect to
subsection 49(1) of the Act effectively ended once the Purchasers gained possession
of the property.
 
15. The concept of ‘bad faith’ has been interpreted in a
consistent line of Board decisions. In essence, if a landlord
or purchaser has ulterior motives,
and her/his/their conduct
tends to prove the existence
of those disingenuous motives, the reasonable conclusion is that the landlord
or the purchaser is acting in ‘bad faith’. That is because a dishonest or
insincere intention cannot be in ‘good faith’.
 
16. A determination of bad faith conduct might be made out
if the Purchasers caused A.H. to give the Tenant an N12 Notice stating that
they require the unit for the purchaser’s own use knowing this was clearly untrue. The court has held that
such conduct “is conduct that is infused with some element of deceit…which is a necessary condition for a finding
of bad faith.”1 There is no evidence before me that would
allow such a determination to
be made, and the Purchasers are not
parties to this application.
 
17. No evidence was presented to establish that A.H. knew, or ought to have known, that the
Purchasers would not be residing in the unit prior to, or at the time of, the
service of the N12 Notice. There is evidence to the contrary before me.
 
18. It is possible
that, subsequent to the purchase
of the property, the Purchasers may have changed their
minds about the use of the property. In several previous decisions, the Board
has held that a change in circumstances after the sale of the property does not
establish that the former landlord
served the N12 Notice in bad faith.(See TST-95289-18 and TST-10645-19).
 
19. Based the evidence before me, I am satisfied that A.H. served
the N12 Notice because the Agreement of Purchase and Sale (i)
required vacant possession for the purposes of Purchasers’ residential use, and
(ii) required A.H. to serve the Notice for purchaser’s own use on the Tenant.
 
 
 
 












1 Wojcik v. Pinpoint Properties Ltd., 2016 ONSC 3116 (Div. Ct.), at para. 4.




 
20. I cannot reasonably conclude that A.H.’s
intentions in serving
the N12 Notice
based on the representations by the Purchasers,
and in compliance with the conditions of the Agreement, were dishonest or
insincere and therefore in bad faith.
 
21. Since Tenant has failed to satisfy the first prong of the legal test under s.57(1)(b), the application cannot succeed and must be dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.       
The Tenant's application is dismissed.
 
 




February 8, 2022







Date Issued                                                                      Elle Venhola
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Southern-RO
119 King Street West, 6th Floor Hamilton ON L8P4Y7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

