Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-06
File number:	
SWL-53465-21

Citation:	Confederation Property Management Inc. v Bennell, 2022 CanLII 51478 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpsmx>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-53465-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


104, 80 CONFEDERATION DRIVE ST. THOMAS ON N5P3P4


 




Between:


Confederation Property Management Inc.


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Janis
  Bennell


Tenant



 
 
 
Confederation
Property Management Inc. (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the
tenancy and evict Janis Bennell
(the 'Tenant') because
the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant.
The Landlord
also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by way of video conference on October 25, 2021. The following
individuals attended the hearing:
 
•        
Brenda Martyn
– Landlord Agent
•        
Luisa Goncalves – Landlord’s legal
representative
•        
Janis Bennell
– Tenant
•        
Susana Pereira
– Tenant’s legal
representative
 
Determinations:
 
1.   
The Landlord’s application is based on an N5 notice served to the Tenant on July 20, 2021 with a termination date of August 20,
2021. The N5 alleges that the Tenant
has failed to maintain an ordinary state of cleanliness within the rental unit
and that the rental unit consists of excessive clutter.
 
Landlord’s evidence:
 
2.   
Brenda Martyn provided oral testimony at the hearing
and was the Landlord’s sole witness.
Ms. Martyn is employed by the Landlord as the building superintendent.
 
3.   
The Landlord’s witness testified that on June 16, 2021 the Landlord
entered the rental
unit to inspect the condition of the rental unit. Upon entering, the
Landlord observed that the Tenant had not maintained an ordinary state of
cleanliness and that the rental unit had




 
excessive clutter.
The Landlord entered
into evidence pictures
taken on the date of the
inspection (LL exhibit #1).
 
4.   
On June 17, 2021 the Landlord’s witness testified that the Tenant
was served with a letter advising the Tenant of the
Landlord’s findings during the June 16, 2021 inspection and advising the Tenant
to correct the issues.
 
5.   
On June 30, 2021 the
Landlord’ witness testified that the Landlord conducted a second inspection of the rental
unit and noticed
no change to the June 16, 2021 inspection. The Landlord’s witness testified that the
rental unit was still cluttered and not in an ordinary state of cleanliness. The Landlord entered into evidence photo
images of the rental unit taken on the date of inspection. (LL exhibit #2).
 
6.   
In response
to the June 16th inspection, the Landlord
served the Tenant with an N5 notice of termination on July 20, 2021.
 
7.   
The Landlord’s witness testified that the Landlord
conducted a third
inspection of the rental
unit on July 29, 2021. During this
inspection, the Landlord acknowledged that the Tenant had made some progress in
clearing the excess clutter and cleaning the rental unit but noted that the
rental unit still contained excess clutter and cleanliness concerns. The Landlord entered into evidence photo
images of the July 29, 2021 inspections (LL exhibit #3).
 
8.   
The Landlord’s witness
testified that as of the date of the hearing, the Tenant had still reduced the excess clutter
in the rental unit. The Landlord advised
the Tenant to contact
their onsite staff if she required assistance, but the Tenant had not reached
out to the Landlord.
 
Tenant’s evidence:
 
9.   
The Tenant
testified that she has resided
in the rental unit for 36 years
and has never been in a
prior legal dispute with her Landlord prior to this proceeding. The Tenant testified that her rental unit
has only recently been inspected and that she did not receive lawful notice of
entry as required by the Act.
 
10. The Tenant does not dispute
that the rental
unit contains excessive clutter and stated
that all of the excess belongings are packed in boxes and are going to
be removed from the rental unit and sent to her parents’ home. The Tenant requests that the Board allow
her additional time to remove the excess clutter.
 
11. The Tenant testified that the unit is an ordinary state of cleanliness and that there are no
pest control issues within her unit.
 
Analysis:
 
12.
Section 33 and 64(1) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the Act)
state




 
33. The tenant
is responsible for ordinary cleanliness of the rental
unit, except to the extent that the tenancy agreement
requires the landlord to clean it
 
64 (1) A landlord may give a tenant notice of termination of the tenancy if
the conduct of the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person
permitted in the residential complex by the tenant is such that it substantially interferes with the reasonable
enjoyment of the residential complex for all usual purposes by the landlord or
another tenant or substantially interferes with another lawful right, privilege
or interest of the landlord or another tenant
 
13. Based on the evidence before the Board, I
am satisfied that the Tenant has substantially interfered with the Landlord’s
reasonable enjoyment, lawful right and/or privileges. The evidence and testimony before the Board is clear that on
June 16, June 30 and July 29, 2021 the rental unit contained excess clutter. The photo images entered into evidence
further show that the rental
unit is not in an ordinary state of cleanliness, the bathroom and kitchen area of the rental unit are
not cleaned and contain excess amounts of garbage, clutter and unclean appliances. The excessive clutter
and cleanliness issues
could lead to a pest control infestation and/or fire
hazard within the rental unit and residential complex.
 
14. The Tenant’s legal representative argued
that the Landlord’s application should be dismissed because the Landlord’s
inspections were based on an illegal entry. I
do not accept the Tenant’s
argument. The basis
of the application is that the Tenant
has not kept the rental unit in an ordinary state
of cleanliness and has stored excess clutter.
If the Tenant believes that the Landlord
has illegally entered
the rental unit, the Tenant
may wish to explore the
appropriate Tenant application to address this concern.
 
15. The Tenant’s representative also argued that the application should be dismissed because the Landlord’s N5 notice made reference to pest control
issues but provided no proof of pest control infestation in their evidence. While I agree with the Tenant’s
representative that the Landlord has not proved on a balance of probabilities
that the Tenant’s conduct has contributed to pest control infestations, I do
not find that this is grounds to dismiss the application. The Landlord has still established that the rental
unit is cluttered
and overall is not in an ordinary state of
cleanliness as per the Tenant’s obligation under section 33 of the Act.
 
Relief from eviction:
 
16. The Landlord is not seeking termination of
tenancy, but rather an order that the Tenant reduce the excess clutter and
maintain an ordinary state of cleanliness going froward.
 
17. The Tenant at the hearing requested
approximately 3 months to rectify the clutter and cleanliness issues. As of the date of this order, the Tenant
has had over two months to rectify the issues.
However, I find that it would not be prejudicial to allow the Tenant some additional time to fulfill their
request.
 
18. I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to




 
grant relief
from eviction subject
to the condition(s) set out in this order
pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and
204(1) of the Act
 
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
 
1.   
On or before
February 28, 2022 the Tenant shall
bring the rental unit to an ordinary state of cleanliness, free of
excessive clutter within the rental unit.
 
2.   
If the Tenant complies
with paragraph 1 of this order, then commencing
March 1, 2022 and continuing until February 28, 2022 the Tenant shall
maintain an ordinary state of cleanliness, free of excessive clutter within the
rental unit.
 
3.   
If the
Tenant fails to comply with the terms in accordance with paragraph 1 or 2 of
this order, the Landlord
may, without notice
to the Tenant and within
30 days of the breach, apply to the Board pursuant to
section 78 of the Act for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the
Tenant
 
4.   
The Tenant
shall also pay the Landlords
$186.00 for the application filing fee on or
before February 28, 2022.
 
5.    If the Tenants do not pay the Landlord
the full amount
in accordance with paragraph
4, the Tenants will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from March 1, 2022
at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
 
 
 
January 6, 2022                                                                                                                                                          Date Issued                                                                      Fabio Quattrociocchi
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin
Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

