Metadata:
Date:	2018-04-09
File number:	
SWL-12415-18
	SWL-12415-18
Citation:	SWL-12415-18 (Re), 2018 CanLII 88655 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hv7nm>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hv7nm
Content:


Order
under Section 69
Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File
Number: SWL-12415-18
MA (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to
terminate the tenancy and evict SA and JP (the 'Tenants') because they, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone they permitted in the residential
complex have wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The
Landlord has also applied for an order requiring the Tenants to compensate the
Landlord for the damage; and because they, another occupant of the rental unit
or someone they permitted in the residential complex have substantially interfered
with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the
Landlord or another tenant. 
 
This application was heard in Windsor on
March 14, 2018.
 
The Landlord attended the hearing.  The
Tenant, JP, attended the hearing on behalf of both Tenants along with Tenant’s
Legal Representatives AC and AM and Tenant's witness LC.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     
As explained in the attached
reasons, the Landlord failed to prove on a balance of probabilities that the Tenants
or a person permitted in the residential complex by the Tenants have wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the rental unit or residential complex.
 
2.     
The Tenants have failed to
pay the utility bills or put the utility accounts into their names. This
conduct substantially interferes with a lawful right, privilege or interest of
the Landlord. 
 
3.     
I have considered all of the
disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to
postpone the eviction until April 30, 2018, pursuant to subsection 83(1)(b) of
the Act.
It is ordered that:
 
1.     
The tenancy between the
Landlord and the Tenants is terminated, as of April 30, 2018. The Tenants must
move out of the rental unit on or before April 30, 2018.
 
2.     
The Tenants shall pay to the
Landlord $175.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
3.     
If the Tenants do not pay
the Landlord the full amount owing on or before April 30, 2018, they will start
to owe interest.  This will be simple interest calculated from May 1, 2018 at
3.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
4.     
If the unit is not vacated
on or before April 30, 2018, then starting May 1, 2018, the Landlord may file
this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may
be enforced.
 
5.     
Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of
the unit to the Landlord on or after May 1, 2018.
 
April 9, 2018                                                                     _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Carol
McDermott
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue,
Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
If you have any
questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with
section 81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires
on November 1, 2018 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where
the rental unit is located.




File
Number: SWL-12415-18
 
REASONS
Reasons
to Order SWL-12415-18 issued on April 9, 2018 by Carol McDermott.
 
Preliminary Issue:  Adjournment Request 
 
1.    The Tenant’s Legal Representatives requested an adjournment on the
grounds that SA, the Tenant not in attendance, the mother of JP, was in
hospital and SA had text messages that she believed would be supportive of the
Tenants’ defence but the Tenant’s Legal Representative had not yet been able to
get copies of the messages.
 
2.    The Landlord objected to the adjournment request on the grounds that
SA had been in bad health since the beginning of the tenancy and the Tenants
had had plenty of time to prepare for the hearing.  He argued that any further
delay would be extremely prejudicial to him because the Tenants are not paying
their utility costs and they are damaging the unit.
 
3.    I denied the Tenants’ request for adjournment because the Notice of
Hearing was mailed on January 16, 2018, and the hearing was held on March 14,
2018.  The Tenants had adequate time to assemble their evidence and prepare for
the hearing.  JP, the Tenant who signed the tenancy agreement was present along
with her sister-in-law as a witness.
 
Notice to Terminate a Tenancy Early (N5)
– adequacy of notice
 
4.    The Tenant’s Legal Representative argued that the N5 was invalid
because it included a $1,000.00 claim for damage as well as a reference to a
list of unpaid utility bills amounting to over $7,000.00.
 
5.    The Landlord argued that the form claims $1,000.00 for damages to
the floor and eviction for failure to pay for the utilities.
 
Analysis
 
6.    The first page of the N5 identifies two grounds of termination.  The
first ground is that the behaviour of the Tenants substantially interferes with
another tenant’s or the Landlord’s reasonable enjoyment of the premises or
other lawful right, privileges or interests.  This ground notes that the
Tenants have 7 days to void the notice by correcting the behavior described on
page 2.
 
7.    The second ground alleges that the Tenants have willfully or
negligently damaged the rental unit and states that the Tenants have 7 days to
avoid the eviction by repairing the damaged property or paying the Landlord
$1,000.00.
 
8.    On page two of the notice, the Landlord has identified three
“Details of the Events”
 
November
17, 2018, the date the Landlord inspected the house and found the floor damaged
by what he alleges was a leak from the Tenants’ fish tank.  
 
December
5, 2017, the date that the Landlord gave the Tenants a notice identifying the
total they were to pay for the $1,000.00 damages plus $3,062.00 outstanding
utility costs.  
 
December
01, 2016 to December 27, 2017, the period during which the Tenants’ utility
accounts remained in the Landlord’s name for which the Tenants failed to pay.
 
9.   
A Landlord may give a Tenant
a notice of termination under section 62 if the Tenant wilfully or negligently
causes undue damage to the rental unit.  The notice must: provide a termination
date not earlier than 20 days after being given; set out the grounds for
termination; require the Tenant within seven days to repair the property or pay
the reasonable costs of doing so.
 
10. A Landlord may also give tenants a notice of
termination under section 64 if the Tenant causes substantial interference with
the reasonable enjoyment of the premises or interferes with a Landlord’s lawful
right or interest.  That notice must provide a termination date that is at
least 20 days later and must give the tenant a 7 day period in which to void
the notice by ceasing the activity.
 
11. The Notice to Terminate a Tenancy Early (N5) the
Landlord served on the Tenants satisfied all the above requirements.  I am not
satisfied that the fact that the Landlord attached to it various records
identifying the amount of the outstanding utility bills was sufficient to
confuse the Tenants amount the intent of the notice.  The intent of the notice
was clearly twofold: to identify the damage to the floor and give the Tenants 7
days to pay $1,000.00 for its repair; and, to give the Tenants 7 days to pay
the utility bills or put the accounts in their own names.  
 
12. When the Tenants failed to do either of the
above within 7 days, the Landlord was entitled to file the Application to
Terminate a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant (L2) within 30 days, which he did.
 
Utilities
            Landlord’s
evidence 
 
13. The Landlord testified that the Tenants were
supposed to transfer the utilities into their own names, and he gave them the
phone numbers of the utility companies in order to do so.  The accounts are in
his name and he owes a total of $8,660.06 for their unpaid amounts.
 
14. The Landlord testified that the lease specifies
the Tenants are responsible for utility payments and that he gave them a notice
in the second month after they moved in reminding them to transfer the accounts
into their names but they never did.
 
15. The Landlord presented a document signed by JP
and LC on March 29, 2017, setting out a list of rental arrears and utility
arrears, and a payment schedule.
 
            Tenants’
evidence
 
16. JP testified that she and her mother, SA, moved
in during December 2016.  The rent was $897.00 per month.  About two months
after they moved in the Landlord asked them to pay the utilities.  She said
that they would not have rented the premises if they had understood they were
responsible for utilities because they could not afford to pay that much.
 
17. LC, the sister-in-law of JP testified.  She said
that she goes to the premises every day.  She said that she was present with
the Tenants signed the lease and she recalled that the rent was $897.00 per
month but she did not recall any discussion about utilities. 
 
18. She acknowledged that she had signed a document
dated March 29, 2017, as a witness on JP’s behalf.  She said that she was at
the house when the Landlord attended looking for the rent and she signed the
paper as the Tenants’ witness.
 
            Analysis
 
19. The lease titled “Landlord Reference and
Information Sheet/ Rental Agreement/ Lease Agreed Upon” stipulates that the
rent is $897.00.  On the same line, to the right, the printed lease says “Plus
utility charge $ “.  There is a hand written check mark and a “yes” written
in.  In the margin, is an asterisk and hand printed:  “snow clearing grass
cutting lawn maintenance Tenants responsibility must be taken care regularly!”
 
20. The Tenant’s Legal Representative argued that
the handwritten note about outdoor maintenance added an ambiguity to the lease
and since the lease had been prepared by the Landlord, the doctrine of
contra proferentem could be applied to interpret the lease to mean
that the Tenants were not responsible for pay the utilities. 
 
21. I can find no logic in that argument.  The check
mark and “yes” clearly indicate that the Tenants are responsible for paying the
utilities.  In order to invoke the doctrine of contra proferentem I need
to find an ambiguity.  I do not see how adding additional responsibilities,
which are normally the Landlord’s, would impose any ambiguity about the
responsibility for utility payments.
 
22. JP, and LC her sister-in-law as witness, signed
the March 29, 2017, payment plan which clearly includes the utility payments.
 
23. I am satisfied that the lease required the
Tenants to pay the utility payments which they did not do and that failure is a
substantial interference with a lawful interest of the Landlord.
 
Damage to Floor
Landlord’s evidence
 
24. The lease includes a handwritten notation that
“minimum 2 years lease required as brand newly renovated house give in
excellent condition. ….”  He said that the house had been empty for 2 to 3
years before the Tenants moved in and he had renovated just before renting to
them.
 
25. The Landlord testified that when the tenancy
began in December 2016, the living room was in perfect condition.  He produced
a photograph taken November 2016 showing the flooring in apparently good
condition.
 
26. The Landlord testified that he received a phone
call from a city building inspector who informed him that the Tenants had
called the building department and they had issued an order to repair the
floor.  
 
27. The Landlord testified that he went to the premises
in November 2017, the first time the Tenants had let him inside in 2 or 3
months.  It was the first he noticed that the Tenants had an aquarium in the
living room.  He later said that he had seen the aquarium earlier when it was
in the entrance when he was at the door but did not go inside.
 
28. The Landlord testified that sometime in May
2017, the Tenants contacted him because the toilet was not flushing properly. 
He attended and found water in the crawl space and replaced the pipe that had
caused the problem.  He said that he had told the Tenants when they moved in
not to store property in the basement because it is just a crawl space for
access to the furnace and water heater.  There is a cement pad there which he
told the Tenants they could use for some storage and he asked them to move
their property onto the pad which they did not do.
 
29. The Landlord testified that the crawl space is
accessible and the building inspector did not tell him to do anything about
it.  The building inspector told him to fix the living room floor but he told
the inspector that he could not afford to do that because the Tenants weren’t
paying their rent or utilities.  The inspector gave him extra time to do the
repairs because he told the inspector that he had to give the Tenants notice
and evict them before doing the repairs.
 
            Tenants’
evidence 
 
30. JP testified that she first noticed problems
with the living floor about a month before she called the building inspector.  She
said that the floor had cracks in it and would sink in when it was walked on.  She
notified the Landlord by text message but she contacted the building inspector
because her Children’s Aid Worker advised her to.
 
31. The Landlord relies on the fact that the parties
agreed the premises were in good condition when the Tenants took possession but
the building inspector later found a problem with the floor and the Tenants
have an aquarium as support for his belief that the Tenants’ aquarium must have
leaked and caused water damage to the floor.
 
32. The Tenant’s Legal Representative relied upon the
argument that the Tenants would not have been likely to call the building
department if they had caused the damage.
 
Analysis
 
33. The premises had been recently renovated before
the Tenants moved in.  The order to repair identifies the fact that the laminate
flooring is damaged and deteriorating and the subfloor may be damaged.  It does
not specify that the floor sustained water damage.  Since the premises had not
been occupied after the renovation but before the Tenants assumed possession,
it is impossible to determine whether the problem with the floor was caused by
faulty materials and construction or, as the Landlord suspects, by the Tenants’
aquarium.
 
34. Although the Landlord’s belief that the Tenants
caused the damage is understandable, this is the Landlord’s application, so the
Landlord must prove on a balance of probabilities that the Tenants were the
cause of the damage.  The Landlord failed to meet that test.
 
Section 83
 
35. The Tenant’s Legal Representative argued that,
in the event I found the Landlord had proven either ground for termination, the
eviction should either because denied or delayed.  She argued that the
application ought to be denied because the Landlord is in serious breach of his
obligations because he did not repair the floor in compliance with the order to
repair and that the reason for the Landlord’s application was the Tenants’
complaint to the building department.  In the alternative, she argued that the
eviction should be delayed because both Tenants have health issues and the
nature of their disabilities makes it hard to find suitable housing.
 
Mandatory
relief
36. Section 83 (2) provides that the Board must deny
the Landlords’ claim for eviction when the Landlord is in serious breach of the
Landlord’s obligations or the reason for the application is that the tenant has
complained to a governmental authority.
 
37. No evidence was led to prove that the reason for
the application was the Tenants’ complaint to the building department.  I find
as a fact that the reason the Landlord wants to evict the Tenants is that they
are not paying the utility bills and he believes they have damaged the floor.
 
38. The Landlord was in breach of his maintenance
obligations by failing to repair the floor.  Although he believed the Tenants
were responsible for the damage and wanted to evict them before repairing it,
he was legally obligated to make the repairs when he became aware of the
deficiency.  However, I am not satisfied that the breach was so sufficient as
to be properly characterized as a serious breach.  The damage to the floor was
primarily cosmetic and the fact the building department allowed an extension of
the time to repair it confirms that they did not consider it a serious safety
hazard.
 
Discretionary
relief
39. Section 83 (1) provides that the Board may deny
or delay and eviction, even when a Landlord had proven the grounds, when given
all the circumstances it would not be unfair to do so.
 
40. As above, the Landlord did have a duty to repair
the floor as soon as he was advised of it.  Under those circumstances and the
fact that the Tenants do need some time to relocate, I do not believe it would
be unfair to extend the termination a short period of time to April 30, 2018. 
Although I recognize that this amount of time is going to make it difficult for
the Tenants to move, considering the amount of utilities that they owe, I find
that it would be unfair to the Landlord to delay the eviction any longer. 
 
 
April 9, 2018                                                                     _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Carol
McDermott
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue,
Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 

