Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-10
File number:	
SWL-55114-21

Citation:	Abbado v Velagic, 2022 CanLII 108687 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jt2gs>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-55114-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


4, 1 WAVERLEY PLACE LONDON ON N6B2C3


 




Between:


Jeandarc Abbado


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Azra Velagic


Tenant



 
 
 
Jeandarc
Abbado (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
Azra Velagic (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on January 17, 2022. The Landlord, the Landlord’s
agent, N. Ramirez, the Landlord’s legal representative, D. DiFruscia and the
Tenant attended the hearing. The Tenant declined the opportunity to speak with
Tenant Duty Counsel before the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     For the reasons that follow, I find that the Tenant,
another occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the
residential complex has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment
or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant.
However, I find that it
would not be unfair to grant relief from eviction, provided the Tenant
meet the conditions set out in this order.
 
2.    
The Tenant was served with an N5
Notice of Termination on September 8, 2021. The N5 Notice alleges that the
Tenant’s occupant continued to park in the additional parking spot after the
Landlord notified the Tenant that the spot needed to be returned.
 
3.     The parties agreed that Tenant and the Landlord’s
brother entered an agreement for an additional parking spot in or about
September 2020. The agreement was that the Tenant would pay the Landlord
an additional $50.00
a month in exchange for the spot. The duration for which the Tenant had additional parking was not discussed. The
Tenant began paying
$50.00 a month
for additional parking beginning October 2020. On August 11, 2021, the Landlord
contacted the Tenant and notified her that the parking spot was no longer
available. The Tenant’s occupant continued
to park in the spot after August 11, 2021. The




 
Tenant continued to pay the
Landlord $50.00, but the Landlord returned the money every month thereafter.
 
4.     The Tenant submitted that a verbal contract was
entered into with the Landlord for an additional parking spot and the term was indefinite. The Tenant’s continued occupation of the spot does not
interfere with another tenant’s reasonable enjoyment, as the tenant in unit 3 (who is entitled to the spot) does not take issue with it. Submitted into evidence was an email from him in this regard. Each
tenant in the residential complex currently has a parking spot.
 
5.     The Landlord’s position was that the parties agreed
the Tenant was entitled to only one parking spot at the beginning of the
tenancy, as per the lease agreement. The spot was provided to the Tenant on a
temporary basis. The Landlord submitted that the Tenant’s occupant’s continued use substantially interferes with unit 3 tenant’s reasonable enjoyment as he does not have access to the parking
spot. The tenant
has to pay for additional parking outside the premises.
 
Law and
Analysis
 
Was the Landlord entitled
to reduce or eliminate a service or facility that was added to the tenancy
agreement?
 
 
6.    
I find that the Landlord was
entitled to discontinue providing the additional parking spot to the Tenant.
 
7.    
The agreement between the parties
is specifically contemplated by sections 123 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’). Subsection 123(1)1
says a landlord and tenant can agree to increase the lawful rent at any time in exchange for the
landlord providing a parking spot. For almost a year, the Tenant paid the Landlord
an additional $50.00
a month for the use of the
spot.
 
8.     If a service/facility is included with the rent, it is
part of the tenancy agreement. The Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’) provides for a remedy for a tenant in the case where a landlord reduces
or discontinues a service or facility when it is added on later by agreement
(with an agreed corresponding increase in rent). The remedy available to
tenants in these circumstances is a rent reduction. I believe that this means the legislation contemplates an unreasonable
reduction or discontinuance of a service or facility that is included in the
tenancy agreement.
 
9.     Two decisions of the Ontario Court of Appeal support
this interpretation. In First Ontario Realty Corporation Ltd. v. Deng,
2011 ONCA 54 (‘Deng’), the Court of Appeal noted that the Act and the
regulation provide that when a landlord reduces or discontinues a service or facility the remedy is a rent
reduction. The Court found that “In the context of this legislative scheme, it is presumed
that a reasonable charge for the ‘services and facilities’ is included
in the rental value of the units and that the rent reduction is equal to a reasonable
charge for the reduction or discontinuance of those services or
facilities” (at para. 35).




 
10.  In Onyskiw v. CJM Property
Management Ltd., 2016 ONCA (‘Onyskiw’) the Court of Appeal
interpreted this point in Deng as follows:
 
Deng illustrates that tenants do not bargain
for a particular service or facility that can never be changed or interrupted. Looking
at the jurisprudence as a whole, it appears
that a landlord ought to provide something in exchange for a significant
interruption or discontinuation of a particular facility or service. (at para
80)
 
11.  The agreement between a landlord and tenant for a
particular service or facility can be changed
or interrupted. As such, the Landlord was entitled to stop providing
the additional parking spot
and the only appropriate recourse for the Tenant is rent reduction. It was
undisputed that rent reduction was provided.
 
Was the Tenant’s occupant’s continued use of the spot substantial interference with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful
right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant?
 
12.  On a balance
of probabilities, I find that the Tenant’s
occupant’s continued use of the spot
constitutes substantial interference with the Landlord’s reasonable enjoyment
or lawful right, privilege of interest.
 
13. 
Subsection 64 (1) of the Act states:
 
A landlord
may give a tenant notice
of termination of the tenancy
if the conduct of the tenant, another occupant of the
rental unit or a person permitted in the residential complex by the tenant is
such that it substantially interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex for all usual purposes
by the landlord or another tenant or substantially interferes
with another lawful right, privilege or interest of the landlord or another
tenant. 2006, c. 17, s. 64 (1).
 
14.  Subsection 64(3) states that the notice of termination
under subsection (1) is void if the tenant, within seven days after
receiving the notice,
stops the conduct
or activity or corrects
the omission.
 
15.  Having found that the Landlord
was entitled to discontinue the facility, the Tenant ought to
have returned the parking spot to the Landlord. Whether or not the tenant in unit
3 takes issue with the Tenant’s occupant’s use of the spot, the landlord has contractual obligations to other tenants. The Tenant
is interfering with the Landlord’s ability to meet those contractual obligations. It is undisputed that the Tenant did not return the parking spot within
seven days after the notice was served. As such, the Tenant did not void
the notice.
 
SECTION 83 CONSIDERATIONS
 
16.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances
in accordance with the Act and find that it
would not be unfair to grant relief
from eviction subject to the condition(s)
set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1) of the
Act.
 
17.  The Tenant’s occupant
continued parking in the spot after the N5 Notice was served.
This is not a positive consideration. However, as termination is a remedy of last resort, the




 
Tenant will be ordered
to return the additional parking
spot to the Landlord. To ensure that the Tenant and her occupant can make
arrangements for alternative parking, the Tenant will be given some time to
return the spot.
 
It is ordered that:
 
 
1.   
The Landlord’s application for eviction of the Tenant
is denied on the condition that:
 
a)     On or before February 28, 2022, the Tenant shall
return the additional parking spot to the Landlord.
 
2.   
If the Tenant fails to comply with
the conditions set out in paragraph 1 above, then, within 30 days of the breach, the Landlord may apply under section 78 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) for
an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenant. The Landlord must
make the application within 30 days of a breach of a condition set out in
paragraph 1 of this order.
 
3.   
The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
4.   
If the Tenant does not pay the
Landlord the full amount owing on or before February 21, 2022, the Tenant will
start to owe interest. This will be
simple interest calculated from February 22, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
balance outstanding.
 
 
February 10, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Camille Tancioco
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

