Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-06
File number:	
SWL-53452-21

Citation:	Thomas v  Rochead, 2022 CanLII 51505 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpsmw>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-53452-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


474 MISTY CRESCENT KITCHENER ON N2B3V6


 




Between:


Martine Thomas


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Dakota
Rochead Nicole Golden


Tenants



 
 
Martine Thomas
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Nicole
Golden and Dakota Rochead (the 'Tenants')
because they, another occupant of the rental unit or someone
they permitted in the residential complex have wilfully or negligently caused
undue damage to the premises. The Landlord has also applied for an order
requiring the Tenants to compensate the Landlord
for the damage.
The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenants remained in the unit
after the termination date.
 
This application
was heard by way of video conference on October 25, 2021. The Landlord attended the hearing and was represented by Barrett Beaudoin, Paralegal. The Tenants
were not present at the hearing despite being served with notice of
hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
N5 notice:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s
application is based on an N5 notice served to the Tenants on July 20, 2021 with a termination date of August
16, 2021. The N5 notice
alleges that the Tenants
have wilfully or negligently damaged the rental unit.
 
2.    
The Landlord’s N5
notice states that the Tenants were provided a fully furnished rental unit by
the Landlord at the commencement of the Tenancy. On or about June 30, 2021 the
Landlord observed the Tenants removing
the Landlord’s furniture
into a U-Haul truck and did
not return with the Landlord’s furniture.
 
3.    
Section 62(1)
of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the Act)
states:
 
62 (1) A landlord may give a tenant
notice of termination of the tenancy if the tenant, another occupant of the
rental unit or a person whom the tenant permits in the residential complex
wilfully or negligently causes undue damage to the rental unit or the residential complex.




 
4.    
It is clear in the
wording of the Act that a notice of termination served pursuant to section
62(1) must include undue damage either wilfully or negligently caused by the
Tenant. In this case, the Landlord is
alleging that the Tenants have stole or removed the Landlord’s belongings from the rental unit. This does not meet the definition of undue damages and as such, cannot be considered as a ground to terminate a tenancy under section
62(1) of the Act. For this reason,
I find that the N5 notice is defective as the alleged
conduct does not constitute
willful or negligent damages, but rather theft.
 
5.    
As the N5 notice
is deemed defective, the Board does not have the jurisdiction to order a termination of tenancy.
 
Compensation for Damages:
 
6.    
Section 89 (1) of the Act states in part
 
89 (1) A landlord
may apply to the Board for an order requiring
a tenant or former tenant to pay reasonable costs that the
landlord has incurred or will incur for the repair of or, where repairing is
not reasonable, the replacement of
damaged property if,
 
(a)    
while the tenant or former tenant
is or was in possession of the rental
unit, the tenant or former
tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person permitted in the
residential complex by the tenant or former tenant wilfully or negligently
causes or caused undue damage to the rental unit or the residential complex;
 
7.    
Although the Landlord’s
N5 notice of termination was deemed defective, the Landlord’s legal representative advised that the Landlord
would still be willing to seek compensation for additional damages plead
on the L2 application, but not mentioned on the N5 notice. The Landlord was
advised that they could not obtain an eviction order under this section alone.
 
8.    
The Landlord
Martine Thomas provided
oral testimony at the hearing
and appeared as the Landlord’s sole witness.
 
9.    
The rental
unit is a single detached
dwelling and the Tenant resides
in the entire house.
 
10. 
Ms. Thomas testified that she
has inspected the rental unit on
May 24, June 30, July 1 and July 24, 2021. During these
inspections the Landlord
observed that the rental unit was excessively damaged by the
Tenants and occupants.
 
11.  The Landlord
gave the following breakdown of the alleged
damages:
 
(a)  
Damaged bricks – The
Tenants installed security cameras on the exterior of the rental unit without the Landlord’s consent.
The installation of the security
cameras resulted in drilling into the exterior brick.
(b)  
Excess amount
of garbage stored
both in the interior and exterior portion
of the rental unit.




 
(c)  
The Baseboards of the rental
unit are damaged
and appear to have bite or chew marks from the Tenants pets.
(d)  
The laminate
flooring throughout the rental unit is excessively scratched and stained
by animal feces not cleaned up.
(e)  
The walls the in the rental
unit have holes
and heavy scratches throughout the
rental unit.
(f)     The carpet in the basement is heavily stained
by animal feces and urine
that was not cleaned.
(g)  
The stairs
in the rental unit is heavily scratched and scuffed due to
the Tenants pets.
 
12.  The Landlord submitted no pictures of the
alleged damages but submitted into evidence an
estimate from Pella
Construction Inc. dated
July 24, 2021 (LL exhibit
#1). The Invoice outlines the repairs needed to
the rental unit and estimates a total cost of $25,538.00.
 
13.  The Landlord testified that they have not
yet completed the repairs on the rental unit as they are waiting for the
Tenants to vacate the rental unit before conducting the repairs. The Landlord
advised that the parties currently have a hearing scheduled for non- payment of rent. The Landlord stated
that the repairs
will be completed once the Tenants
have vacated the rental unit to ensure that no further damages are done.
 
Analysis:
 
14.  Based on the uncontested evidence before
the Board, I am satisfied that the Tenants, occupants or someone permitted into the rental
unit by the Tenants have wilfully and/or negligently damaged the rental
unit. The Tenants were not present at
the hearing to dispute the Landlords oral testimony and the Landlord was
consistent throughout her testimony.
 
15.  I am satisfied that the Landlord will incur
costs of repairs for damages as a result of the Tenants conduct as this is supported
by an estimate obtained by a contractor. However, I will not grant the Landlord’s request for $1,000.00
for garbage removal. I do not find
that garbage removal constitutes undue damages, but rather an administrative
out of pocket expense.
 
16.  As such, the Landlord shall only be awarded
$24,538.00 in compensation for out of pocket
expenses incurred as a result
of wilful or negligent damage to the rental unit.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Tenant
shall pay to the Landlord
$24,538.00, which represents the reasonable costs of repairing the damaged items.
 
2.    
The Tenant
shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing the application.
 
3.    
Total amount
the Tenant owes the Landlord
is $24,724.00




 
4.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before
January 17, 2022 the Tenant will
start to owe interest. This will be
simple interest calculated from January 18, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
balance outstanding.
 
 
 
January 6, 2022                                                                                                                                                        Date Issued                                                                      Fabio Quattrociocchi
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin
Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

