Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-03
File number:	
SWL-56815-21

Citation:	Georges v Nastoras, 2022 CanLII 87299 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2rl>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-56815-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


17, 585 MILL STREET WINDSOR ON N9C2R7


 




Between:


Ibrahim Georges Samira Georges


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Allen Yourm Nastoras


Tenant



 
 
 
Ibrahim Georges and Samira
Georges (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Alan Yourm Nastoras (the 'Tenant') because they intend to do major repairs or renovations to the rental
unit. The Landlords
also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the
termination date.
 
The hearing was held by videoconference on January 10th,
2022.
 
The Landlord’s son, Winsam Georges
and the Landlord’s Legal Representative, Melissa Bradley
attended the hearing. The Landlord’s son gave evidence on the Landlord’s
behalf.
 
The Tenant had initially attended
the hearing however, he advised the
Board that he required an Arabic interpreter. The Tenant advised that he had made a request for an interpreter on January 6th, 2022 however,
nothing was noted on the file. The Tenant was then invited
to have a friend or family member call in to assist with
interpretation. His brother, Alvin Nastoras attended at his location and
assisted with Arabic interpretation for the purpose of the hearing.
 
Landlord’s Son’s Evidence
 
1.     
The complex in question
is a 30-unit complex that is 30 years old. The complex
contains 3 floors containing 10 units per floor with a shared kitchen
for each floor. Each unit contains its own bathroom.
 
2.     
As the result of an accident
that occurred in June 2021, extensive damage had occurred to 4 units which caused the City
of Windsor to issue an Unsafe Order. This order was never filed as evidence.
 
3.     
This incident
caused the Landlords to rethink their ownership of the building. The Landlord’s son testified that the accident
caused his parents
a lot of mental anguish




 
which led them to decide to either conduct extensive renovations of the complex,
or to sell.
 
4.     
The Landlords had hired a realtor
and have received only one offer to purchase from Blocks Group for the property
however, the sale is conditional on vacant possession of the entire complex by
February 1st, 2022. He provided further evidence that should the
sale of the complex fall though, that he would have to hire a project manager
for the renovations. He also advised that the purchasers may also renovate
the building, as well.
 
5.     
All but 6 Tenants have left the
complex, including the Tenant. The Landlord’s son described the remaining Tenants
as having requested
unreasonable compensation to leave the complex and have made the
process difficult for his parents.
 
6.     
The Landlord’s son testified that
the complex requires extensive renovations including replacement of the heating
system from electricity to either a forced air gas or boiler system which would
require the complex’s electricity to be turned off for a significant amount of time. He also
testified that the complex will also be installed with a hot water
line, bathrooms and kitchens will be updated among other repairs.
 
7.     
The Landlord has not submitted any
building permits from the City of Windsor. The Landlord’s son testified that he is unable to get any permits without
first being able to
have free and open access to the units. He requires access to conduct
exploratory demolition of the complex to determine the scope of work.
 
8.     
He requires free and open access
to all the units, including the Tenant’s unit
to allow for an estimator access
to the building and to be able create drawings
for the scope of work. Once the drawings are completed,
then applications for permits with the City will be made.
 
9.     
The Landlord’s son testified that he has yet to hire a contractor, but that he had one or
two in mind who he had worked with in the past.
 
10.   Further, the Landlord’s son testified that the rent
for the Tenant’s unit is $400. He acknowledges that he must pay the Tenant
$1200 for compensation as required under section 54 of the Residential
Tenancies Act (the “Act”) but has not done so yet, as the Tenant has not agreed to move. He testified
that he would pay the compensation prior
to the Termination date once the Tenant is evicted.
 
Tenant’s Evidence
 
11.   The Tenant testified
that he does not want to move as he has been unable to find an affordable unit.
 
12.   The Tenant provided further evidence that after the
June 2021 accident that the Landlords had provided
confusing information about their intended
future use of the
complex and that he was told to leave.




 
13.  
For the following reasons,
the Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
Reasons
 
14.  
I find on a balance of probabilities that the Landlord
has not taken reasonable steps
to obtain permits for the renovations pursuant to s. 73(1)(b)(ii) of the
Act.
 
15.   No documentary evidence
was ever tendered
to support the testimony of the Landlord’s son that no permits could be
obtained, or any other exploratory work could have taken place without vacant
possession of the complex.
 
16.   The Landlord’s Legal Representative had asked me to
consider the cases of Two Clarendon Apartments Limited
v. Sinclair (2019) ONCS 3845, as well as TSL-04695-19
and TSL-04702-19 but this case can be distinguished from the cited cases, as
those cases involved demolition permits where contractors were hired.
 
17.   I am further confused about the Landlord’s true
intentions with the complex. The Landlord has applied to the Board for the
eviction of the Tenant for renovations but has also sold the complex
conditional on vacant
possession. The Landlord’s son testified that the new owner may also conduct the
same renovations or the ones that he described in his evidence. The Landlords are bringing these applications prematurely without knowing
entirely what their plan for the building is. The purchasers never attended the
hearing, and no Agreement of Purchase and Sale was ever submitted as evidence.
 
18.   As such, I am not satisfied on a balance
of probabilities that the Landlord’s application was made in good faith.
 
It is ordered that:
 
19.   The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
 
 
February 3rd, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Jagger Benham
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin
Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor London ON N6A5N6
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

