Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-24
File number:	
SWL-56112-21

Citation:	Rocmar Investments Inc. v Kilmer, 2022 CanLII 128576 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jv56g>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-56112-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


49 HICKORY
BOULEVARD W STRATHROY ON
  N7G4E9


 




Between:


Rocmar Investments Inc.


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Chris Kilmer Nina
Ramalho


Tenants



 
 
 
Rocmar
Investments Inc. (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy
and evict Nina Ramalho and Chris Kilmer (the 'Tenants') because the Tenant,
another occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant
permitted in the residential complex has substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or
another tenant; because they, another occupant of the rental unit or someone they
permitted in the residential complex have wilfully or negligently caused undue
damage to the premises and because they, another occupant of the rental unit or
a person the Tenants permitted in the residential complex have seriously
impaired the safety of any person.. The Landlord has also applied for an order
requiring the Tenants to compensate the Landlord for the damage.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on January 31, 2022. The
Landlord’s legal agent,
N. Prigioniero, legal representative, A. Mason, and witness, A. Fenton, attended
the hearing. As of
10:19 a.m., the Tenants were not present or represented although properly
served with notice of this hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     This application is about an N5 Notice
of Termination for substantial interference and wilful or
negligent damages and an N7 Notice of Termination for serious impairment of
safety and wilful damages. For the reasons that follow, I find that the Tenants
seriously impaired the safety of another person, substantially interfered with
the Landlord’s reasonable enjoyment and negligently caused damage to the residential complex. The Landlord’s claim for compensation for the damage is also granted. I also find that it would be unfair to grant
relief from eviction.
 
2.     The Landlord served an N5 and N7 Notice of Termination
on the Tenants on September 15, 2021.




 
3.    
The allegations in the Notices are identical. On September 2, 2021, the Landlord attended the unit for an inspection and saw extensive
damage and there was accumulation of items in the unit.
The closet doors were broken, there was graffiti on walls and doors, damaged
kitchen cabinets and countertop, holes in walls, damaged window screen, removed
dishwasher, damaged light fixture, unhinged doors, damaged toilet, holes in
doors, damaged trim, damaged drywall, damaged door frames/handles, stains on
the carpet, chipped paint on wall and damaged bathroom
vanity in basement.
The Landlord estimated that the cost to repair or replace the damages is $34,963.01. The Tenants also obstructed
the doorways and walkways with garbage, broken
furniture, clothes and other belongings. Further, the Tenants disabled/damaged the smoke alarm. Photographs of the above-noted were submitted into evidence.
 
Law and Analysis
 
N7 Notice
 
4.     Section 63 of the Act allows a Landlord to serve a
notice of termination on a tenant if the tenant, an occupant or guest of the tenant
wilfully causes undue damage
to the rental unit or the residential complex. I am not
satisfied that the damage was wilfully caused as the Landlord did not lead
sufficient evidence regarding the intent of the Tenants in damaging the unit. As such,
the tenancy cannot
be terminated based on this portion of the N7 Notice.
 
5.     Pursuant to section
66 of the Act, a landlord may give a tenant a notice of termination if an
act or omission of the tenant seriously impairs the safety of another person, provided that the act or omission
complained of occurs in the residential complex.
 
6.     On a balance
of probabilities, I find that the Tenants
seriously impaired the safety of another
person. The pictures show that the Tenants have blocked egresses. This poses a
risk to the safety of the occupants of the residential complex as they do not have access
to an exit in the event of an emergency. Further, the disabling of a
smoke detector poses a serious risk to health and safety of other occupants as
an inoperable smoke detector means that the Tenants and others may not be aware
of a fire.
 
N5 Notice
 
7.     Subsection 64(1) of the Act allows a landlord to serve a notice of termination on the tenant if the conduct of the tenant, an
occupant or guest substantially interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the
residential complex or substantially interferes with another lawful right,
privilege or interest of the landlord or another tenant.
 
8.     Based on the uncontested evidence of the Landlord, I
find that the Tenants substantially interfered with the Landlord and other
tenants’ reasonable enjoyment by damaging the rental unit.
 
9.     Subsection 62(1) of the Act allows a landlord to serve on a tenant a notice of termination if the tenant, occupant
or guest wilfully
or negligently caused
undue damage to the residential complex.




 
 
 
10.  The language of section 62 requires damage to be
undue. It is recognized that some damage will occur over the regular course of
time, due to regular wear and tear in a residential complex. Reasonable wear
and tear would not normally constitute “undue damage” (Kamoo v. Brampton
Caledon Housing Corp. 2005 O.J. No. 3911).
 
11.  Based on the uncontested evidence of the Landlord, I
also find that the Tenants, an occupant or guest negligently caused
damage to the residential complex
and that damage is undue. The photographs
submitted into evidence exhibits substantial damage which cannot be said to be
a result of reasonable and tear.
 
12.  I am also satisfied the Tenants did not void the notice
by repairing or replacing the damaged
items or paying the Landlord any amount to void the notice.
 
DAMAGES
 
13.  The Landlord also claimed compensation for the damages
pursuant to section 89 of the Act. Having found that the Tenants negligently
caused undue damage to the rental unit, the remaining issue is whether the
Landlord’s claim for the cost to repair or replace the damages is reasonable.
 
14.  An itemized list of the damage and the cost to repair
was submitted into evidence. A. Fenton, a general contractor and licensed
carpenter, testified to the estimated costs for these damages. A. Fenton
confirmed that $34,963.01 was for materials and labour. He confirmed that no improvements were being made to the unit and the amount claimed was just to restore the unit to the state
before the damages. As such, I am satisfied that the amount claimed is
reasonable in the circumstances.
 
SECTION 83 CONSIDERATIONS
 
15.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances
in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act'), and find that it would be unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant
to subsection 83(1) of the Act.
 
16.  The Landlord disclosed that the police have been contacted 19 times for activity in the unit. On
December 16, 2021, the police attended the unit and apprehended people for trafficking illegal drugs. Thirteen
neighbours wrote to the Landlord expressing concerns of the drug activity in
the unit. The Tenants did not disclose any circumstances for me to consider
delaying or denying eviction. In consideration of the foregoing, relief will
not be granted.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenants is
terminated, as of March 1, 2022. The Tenants must move out of the rental unit
on or before March 1, 2022.
 
2.     The Tenants shall pay to the Landlord
$34,963.01, which represents the reasonable costs of repairing the damage and/or
replacing the damaged property.




 
3.    
The Tenants shall also pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
4.     If the Tenants do not pay the Landlord the full amount
owing on or before March 1, 2022, they will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from March 2, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
5.     If the unit is not vacated on or before March 1, 2022,
then starting March 2, 2022, the Landlord may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction
may be enforced.
 
6.     Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office
(Sheriff) is directed
to give vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after March
2, 2022. The Sheriff is requested to expedite the enforcement of this order.
 
 
February 24, 2022 Date
Issued
Camille Tancioco
Member,
Landlord and Tenant
Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section
81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction
expires on September 2, 2022
if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental
unit is located.

