Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-10
File number:	
SWL-56749-21

Citation:	Windsor Essex Community Housing Corporation v Falk, 2022 CanLII 87668 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2rj>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-56749-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


416, 333 GLENGARRY AVENUE WINDSOR ON N9A1P6


 




Between:


Windsor Essex
Community Housing Corporation


Landlord




 


and


 




 


Kyle Falk


Tenant



 
 
 
Windsor Essex Community Housing
Corporation (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict Kyle Falk (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant or another
occupant of the rental unit has committed an illegal act or has carried out, or
permitted someone to carry out an illegal trade, business or occupation in the
rental unit or the residential complex. The Landlord also claimed compensation
for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on January 31, 2022.
 
Only Tiffany Mokhtari, on behalf
of the Landlord, and the Landlord's Legal Representative, Madeline Roy, attended the hearing. As of 9:20 a.m., the Tenant was not present
or represented at the hearing
although properly served with notice of this hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     For the reasons
that follow, I find that the Tenant
committed an illegal
act on the residential complex.
 
2.    
On November 16, 2021, the Landlord
served the Tenant a N6 Notice of Eviction. The notice was dated November
16, 2021 and had a termination date of December
12, 2021.
 
3.    
The notice seeks to terminate the tenancy because
the Landlord alleges on November 8, 2021, at
approximately 9:00 a.m., the Tenant pulled the fire alarm and was smoking in
the hallway.
 
4.      Tiffany Mokhtari (TM), the District Manager for
District 1, testified on behalf of the Landlord. TM testified that on November
8, 2021 at approximately 9:00 a.m., as demonstrated by the vide entered into
evidence, the Tenant was seen arguing with a female guest in the hallway. As he followed
her, while they appeared to be yelling
at each other, he threw banana
peels at her and when they entered the stairwell foyer,
he threw a bicycle
down the stairs.
She recognizes the male in the video as the Tenant; he moved in




 
August 2021 and she knows him because he is a newer Tenant
and she was involved with the
process with respect to this matter.
 
5.     TM so
testified that she beeves a
conditional order would
be an appropriate resolution in
this circumstance because
the Tenant’s behaviour has not changed
since the notice was
served. On December 1, 2021, the Tenant pointed a long sword-like object at
another tenant. This type of behaviour poses a safety risk to other tenants and
staff.
 
Analysis
 
6.     Section 61 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’) says:
 
(1)   A landlord may give a tenant notice
of termination of the tenancy if the tenant or another occupant of the rental unit commits an illegal act or carries on an illegal
trade, business or occupation or permits a person to do so in the rental unit or the residential
complex.
 
(2)   A
notice of termination under this section shall set out the grounds
for termination and shall provide a termination date not earlier than,
 
(a)  
the 10th day after
the notice is given, in the case of a notice grounded on an illegal act, trade,
business or occupation involving,
 
(i) 
the production of an illegal drug,
 
(ii)  
the trafficking in an illegal drug, or
 
(iii) 
the possession of an illegal drug for the purposes of trafficking
 
(b)  
the 20th day after the notice is given, in all other cases.
 
7.     A landlord who gives a tenant a notice of termination pursuant
to section 61(1) of the Act must establish on a balance of probabilities that
either the tenant or an occupant committed the illegal act or the tenant or an
occupant permitted a person to commit the illegal act.
 
 
8.     Section 437 of Criminal Code (R.S.C., 1985, c. C-46) says:
Every one who wilfully, without reasonable cause,
by outcry, ringing
bells, using a fire alarm, telephone or telegraph, or
in any other manner, makes or circulates or causes to be made or circulated an
alarm of fire is guilty of
(a)  
an indictable offence and is liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years; or
(b)  
an offence
punishable on summary
conviction.




 
 
 
 
9.    
Based on the
uncontested testimony and video evidence before me, I find that on November 8,
2021, the Tenant pulled the fire alarm; this was a false alarm that fire
services and the Landlord had to respond
to and is an illegal
act pursuant to section 437 of the Criminal Code. I further find
that this illegal act took place within the residential complex.
 
10. 
With respect to the Tenant throwing the banana peels and
the bicycle during the same
incident, these acts were not included in the details
of the N7. As such, the Tenant
had no knowledge that they would be raised, therefore they cannot form
any basis for the reason for eviction.
 
Relief from Eviction
 
11.   I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief from
eviction subject to the condition(s)
set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1) of the Act.
Pulling a fire alarm when there is no fire is an illegal act. However, the Landlord is less prejudiced by the Tenant being required
to abide by a conditional
order than the prejudice to the Tenant of losing his subsidized housing due to
this one-time occurrence.
 
12.  Section 83(1) and (2) of the Act says:
 
(1)  
Upon an application for an order
evicting a tenant, the Board may, despite any other provision of this Act or
the tenancy agreement,
(a)   
refuse to grant the application
unless satisfied, having regard to all the circumstances, that it would be
unfair to refuse; or
(b)  
order that the enforcement of the eviction order be postponed for a period of time.
(2)    
If a hearing is held, the Board shall not grant the application unless it has reviewed the circumstances and considered whether
or not it should exercise
its powers under subsection (1).
 
13.  Here, the circumstances the Landlord wants me to
consider include the seriousness of the uncontested incident,
that it is a relatively new tenancy, and that antisocial behaviour has continued. The building has
approximately 200 tenants, a number of whom have mental health or mobility
issues; pulling the fire alarm affects all tenants by forcing them to respond
to a false alarm, plus it being a waste of community safety resources.
 
14.  It is well established in case law that eviction is to
be a remedy of last resort. Here, the behaviour giving rise to the notice of
termination occurred on November 8, 2021. Although the behaviour since the incident
in the notice was not perfect,
with one alleged incident on December 1, 2021,
there were no other incidents of serious anti-social




 
behaviour or illegal acts. Further, as the December
1st incident was not included
on the notice of eviction,
and the Tenant was not aware it was going to be raised, I cannot consider it as
a reason for eviction, despite the seriousness of the allegation, as the
allegation has not been heard on its merits.
 
15.  With respect to the throwing of the banana peels and
the bicycle, as previously addressed, as they were not indicated on the N6, they cannot
be a basis for an eviction.
Although these acts are shown on the video, as with the December 1st alleged incident, the Tenant had no prior knowledge
that these acts would be brought up at hearing. As the Tenant is not present to
offer testimony, I cannot consider these acts under section 83(3) as a reason
for finding it unfair to grant relief from eviction.
 
16.  Further, as set out in EAL-02969 (Ottawa-Carleton Housing v. Cave,
(20 January 1999; Guénette), File No. EAL-02969 (ORHT)), it is not the role of
the Board to punish tenants for breaking the law but to protect tenants and landlords from harm by evicting those who pose significant threat to
others in the residential complex. The primary concern in determining whether
eviction is appropriate should be the continuing safety of the residents of the residential complex. I find the continuing safety of others
in the residential complex is addressed by the Tenant being required to
abide by a conditional order, particularly since this is a one-time incident.
This is in line with the Board’s determination that in certain circumstances,
if it is an isolated incident, eviction is not warranted (Canadian
Apartments Management Inc. v. Brown, (15 June 1999; Summers), File Nos.
TSL-09143 and TST-00951 (ORHT)).
 
17.  For all the above reasons
I find the Tenant should not be evicted, and a conditional order is appropriate.
 
18.  As the Landlord
was successful in proving illegal
act, they are entitled to reimbursement
of the application filing fee.
 
19.  This order contains
all the reasons for the decision within
it. No further reasons shall be
issued.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s application for eviction of the Tenant is denied
on the condition that, for the
duration of the tenancy, the Tenant, occupant, or guest do not commit an illegal act in the rental unit or
residential complex; including but not limited to pulling the fire alarm when
there is no fire.
 
2.    
If the Tenant, an occupant or a guest fail to abide by the condition
in paragraph 1, then the Landlord may apply under
section 78 of the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’) for an order
terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenant. The Landlord must make the
application within 30 days of a breach of a condition set out in paragraph 1 of
this order.
 
 
3.     The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing the application.




 
 
 
4.    
If the Tenant does not pay the
Landlord the full amount owing on or before March 1, 2022, the Tenant will start to owe interest.
This will be simple interest
calculated from March 2, 2022
at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
 








 
 
Diane Wade




 


February 10, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

