Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-17
File number:	
SWL-55317-21

Citation:	Ritz v Featherstone, 2022 CanLII 108694 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jt2h0>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-55317-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


2, 322 ONTARIO
STREET STRATFORD ON N5A3H8


 




Between:


Robert Ritz


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Kelly
  Featherstone


Tenant



 
 
 
Robert Ritz
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Kelly
Featherstone (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant or another occupant of the
rental unit has committed an illegal act or has carried out, or permitted
someone to carry out an illegal trade, business or occupation in the rental
unit or the residential complex involving the production of an illegal drug, the trafficking in an illegal
drug or the possession of an illegal
drug for the purposes of trafficking. The Landlord also applied
for compensation because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental
unit or someone
the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully
or negligently caused undue
damage to the premises. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the
Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on January 24, 2022.
Only the Landlord attended the hearing.
As of 1:16 p.m., the Tenant was not present
or represented although
properly served with notice of
this hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Landlord served on the Tenant an N6 Notice of
Termination on September 29, 2021. The Landlord submitted that the tenancy was
terminated by way of ex parte order SWL- 56545-21 issued on November
25, 2021. As the tenancy
is terminated, the issue of eviction
is moot. As such, the only live issue is damages pursuant to section 89 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).
 
2.     The Landlord’s claim for damages is regarding damages
to the front door of the Tenant’s unit during a police raid in search of illegal
drugs. The Landlord
testified that on September
15, 2021, the police attended the Tenant’s unit and used a battering ram to
enter. While the Landlord was forthcoming that he was not at the unit at the time, he stated that he knew the door was locked and the police
did not provide the occupants with a chance to open the door so they would not tamper with evidence. Further,
a master key was not used. The Landlord submitted that but for the
Tenant’s occupant being in possession of drugs, the door would not be damaged
by the police.




 
 
 
3.     
Section 89 of the Act states
as follows:
 
A landlord
may apply to the Board for an order requiring a tenant to pay reasonable costs
that the landlord has incurred or
will incur for the repair of or, where repairing is not reasonable, the replacement of damaged property, if the tenant, another occupant
of the rental unit or a person whom the tenant permits in the residential
complex wilfully or negligently causes undue damage to the rental unit or the residential complex and the tenant is
in possession of the rental unit.
 
4.     This means that three important facts must be
established in an application such as this. First, the landlord has incurred
costs as a result of damaged property.
Second, the damage was caused
by a tenant, another occupant
of the rental unit or a person whom the tenant permitted in the residential complex.
Third, the property
damage was caused
by the wilful or negligent
actions of the tenant, another occupant of the unit or a guest.
 
5.     While the Landlord
may have established that he incurred
costs arising out of
damaged property, in particular, the
dent in the door to the unit and the doorframe, his claim must fail as he has failed to establish, on a balance
of probabilities, the two additional requirements outlined in the
preceding paragraph.
 
6.     Based on the Landlord’s evidence, the officers simply
proceeded to break down the door without first attempting to knock, use a master key or otherwise announcing their presence to the
Tenant or the occupants. The officers who attended the unit did not attend the
hearing to testify why it was necessary to damage the door during the raid. In
my view, there is no reason to assign any responsibility or liability to the Tenant if the police did not take reasonable steps to enter the
unit before breaking the door. For these
reasons, I am unable to find, on a balance of probabilities, that the property
damage was caused by the wilful or negligent actions of the Tenant, another
occupant of the unit or a guest.
 
7.     Equally important, here it was the police,
not the Tenant, an occupant
or a person permitted in the unit by the Tenant who caused the damage
to the door and doorframe. Since the police
were not an occupant or individuals permitted in the complex
by the Tenant, the Landlord
did not prove a further requirement under section 89 of the Act to establish
that the Tenant is responsible for the cost of repairing the damaged door and
door frame.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.   
The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
February 17, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Camille Tancioco
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6




 
 
 
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

