Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-24
File number:	
SWL-53916-21

Citation:	Good v Embury, 2022 CanLII 128506 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jv55w>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-53916-21
 
 



In the
  matter of:


APT #2, 174
HIGHLAND ROAD EAST KITCHENER ON N2M3W2


 




Between:


Richard Good


Landlord




 


and


 




 


Cindy Embury


Tenant



 
 
 
Richard Good (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Cindy Embury (the
'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone
the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully caused undue
damage to the premises and because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or a person the Tenant permitted
in the residential complex has seriously impaired the safety of any
person.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on November 1, 2021.
The Landlord and the Tenant attended the hearing.
Determinations:
 
1.     The Landlord’s application is based on a Notice to End your Tenancy
for Causing Serious Problems in the Rental Unit or
Residential Complex (‘N7 Notice’), deemed served on August 2, 2021. The N7
Notice alleges that the Tenant’s behavior or the behaviour of someone visiting
or living with the Tenant has seriously impaired the safety of another person
and this behaviour occurred in the residential complex.
 
2.     In order to be successful on this ground,
the Landlord must establish that the effect
of the Tenant’s actions
threatens, or has threatened, the well-being or physical integrity of another
person to such a degree that termination of
the tenancy is reasonable in
order to ensure the safety of others.
 
3.    
The N7 Notice sets out the following details:
 
June 28, 2021 – Landlord met
with tenants from apartment 3. They described activity happening at all hours
of the day and night. Numerous male visitors entering
building and doors slamming.
Very concerned about their safety especially with Covid cases still high in
Waterloo Region and visitors never being masked.
 
June 29, 2021 – Landlord Spoke with Tenant
about complaints and discussed rehab.




 
July 5, 2021 – Landlord received
phone call from another Tenant about suspicious activity by tenant in apartment
#2. Alleging that Tenant was meeting men behind the building and exchanging something and ringing incorrect doorbells and tapping
on wrong windows and that
other tenant is concerned about their safety.
 
July 11, 2021 – Landlord received
complaints from other Tenants that police attended
the unit and took someone away in handcuffs after hearing someone call
for help.
 
March 4, 2020 – front door glass was damaged and Tenant’s son was charged
and Landlord did not receive reimbursement for the door.
 
4.    
At the hearing, the Landlord
testified to the complaints that they received as outlined in the notice.
The Landlord only provided hearsay
evidence of what other Tenants
had told the Landlord. No
other witnesses were called to testify at the hearing.
 
5.     As it pertained to the damage to the door, the
Landlord testified that the incident took place more than a year and a half
prior to the service of the N7 Notice. The
Landlord testified that they felt it was appropriate to include the door because
they were never
paid for the door.
 
6.     On cross examination, the Landlord admitted
that the Tenant
has offered to pay for the
door, but the Landlord knew that she did not have the means to pay for the
door.
 
7.     The Tenant testified that she had people coming to the
rental unit in order to purchase some items that had accumulated after the passing
of the Tenant’s parents in February
which would explain the comings and goings of people to the rental unit.
 
8.    
The Tenant further testified that
she had been away from the rental unit for the past 2 months and explained that
the tapping incident on the wrong window had only happened on one occasion. The Tenant explained
that she did not want anyone ringing
the doorbell and making noise,
so they tapped on the window.
 
9.    
I prefer the Tenant’s direct
evidence, which was given under oath, to the Landlord’s evidence, which
consisted almost exclusively of hearsay. As a result, I am not satisfied that
the Landlord has established a breach of the Act. There was no evidence offered that would support a finding that the Tenant
has seriously impaired
the safety of another
person in the rental unit or residential complex.
 
10.  I also find that the Landlord has failed to establish that the Tenant
or her son have wilfully and unduly damaged the rental door.
 
11.  For these reasons
I find that the Landlord’s application should be dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s application is dismissed.




 
 
 
February 24, 2022
Date Issued
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite
400, 4th Floor London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

