Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-03
File number:	
SWL-46725-20

Citation:	St. Thomas - Elgin Social Services v Hunter, 2022 CanLII 97482 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsjgl>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-46725-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


8, 253
RIDOUT STREET RODNEY ON
  N0L2C0


 




Between:


St. Thomas - Elgin Social Services


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Tina Hunter


Tenant



 
 
 
St. Thomas - Elgin Social
Services (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and
evict Tina Hunter (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant or another occupant of the
rental unit has committed an illegal act or has carried out, or permitted
someone to carry out an illegal trade, business or occupation in the
rental unit or the residential complex.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on June 14,
2021.
 
The Landlord’s Agents, Lianne
Pike and Connie
Cooper, and the Tenant attended
the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Landlord alleged that the Tenant and the Tenant’s
gests committed illegal activities in the rental unit and the residential
complex. The Landlord is relying exclusively on hearsay evidence to
substantiate the allegations. The Landlord’s Agents have no personal knowledge
of the alleged illegal activities committed by the Tenant and her guests. The
Landlord is relying on statements made by other tenants suggesting that the
Tenant was arrested for committing illegal activities in the residential unit. The main piece
of information the Landlord is relying on to support the allegations of illegal
activity made against the Tenant is the fact that a search warrant for illegal
activity was executed at the Tenant’s unit and another tenant reported to the
Landlord that the Tenant was arrested as result of this search warrant. The
Landlord was not present when the warrant was executed by police at the
Tenant’s rental unit. The Landlord has no specific details of the search
warrant executed by police.
 
2.      At the hearing,
the Tenant called
3 witnesses who are tenants
of the residential complex
who testified that the Tenant
did not commit any illegal
activity. The Tenant denied all the
allegations of illegal activity the Landlord made against her and say that she
has no knowledge of the theft of a
license plate and illegal substance trafficking occurring in her rental unit.




File Number: SWL-46725-20
 
3.    
The Board allows hearsay evidence
to be relied upon and submitted at hearings, however it is not always the best
evidence to substantiate some allegations of wrongdoing by a tenant. The
hearsay evidence relied upon by the Landlord did not persuade me that the
Tenant engaged in illegal activities in the residential unit or the residential
complex. Furthermore, none of the tenants, who made allegations that the Tenant
committed illegal activities, attended the hearing to provide evidence. On the
other hand, the Tenant produced
3 witnesses that corroborated her facts and supported
her position. I do not have enough evidence to justify an eviction in this
application.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord's application is dismissed.
 
 
February 3, 2022 Date
Issued
Poeme Manigat
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

