Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-21
File number:	
SWL-38129-19

Citation:	SWL-38129-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 128992 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrskz>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:


 
 
 
Order under Section 126
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
 
 
 
MNOHL (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order permitting the rent charged to be increased by more than
the guideline for one or more of the rental units in the residential complex.
 
This application was resolved by
written hearing. The Board received submissions from the Landlord’s Legal
Representative, RM per HW and the Tenants, MV,
DR, CL, AR, R and LW, JA, CE, ST and CV.
 
It is determined that:
 
1.                 
The Landlord justified a rent increase
above the guideline
because of capital expenditures.
 
2.                 
The maximum rent increase
above the guideline
because of capital
expenditures is 0.70%. This
increase is for the following capital expenditures:
 
a.        
Asphalt & Concrete Sidewalk
Replacement; and
b.     
Make-Up Air (MUA) Replacement.
 
3.                 
The Landlord claims the asphalt
and sidewalk had deteriorated over time and posed a safety hazard. Further, the
Landlord claims the work was necessary and is an eligible capital expenditure pursuant to s.126(7)(b) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
“Act”). This section stipulates that the Landlord is required to comply with
housing standards in accordance with subsection 20(1) of the Act.
4.                 
The Landlord submits that the MUA
units are required to provide sufficient airflow within the buildings. The Landlord submits
that the previous
MUA units which
included 2 units at 305 Margaret Ave. and 1 unit at 315 Margaret Ave.
were original to the buildings constructed in 1991. The Landlord claims the
replacement of the MUA units are an eligible capital expenditure pursuant to
s.126(7)(b), (c) and (e) of the Act. The Landlord claims the MUA units required
replacement and were necessary for the




Landlord to comply with the housing
standards requirements pursuant
to s. 20(1) of the Act, to maintain the provision of
mechanical and ventilation systems within the residential complex, and to
promote energy conservation.
 
Response to deficiency letter
from the Board – MUA unit replacement
 
5.                 
In the application, the first
effective date (“FED”) of the proposed rent increase is February 1, 2020. The Act requires
that the work claimed be completed within
a certain timeframe which ends
90 days prior to the FED of February 1, 2020. There is an 18- month window
which is tied to the FED. Here the 18-month period runs from May 3, 2018 to
November 3, 2019.
 
6.                 
Some of the Landlord’s claimed expenses for the MUA unit replacement project fall outside
this window as follows:
 
•                    
November 30, 2017 invoice from RCE
in the amount of
$5,819.50; and
 
•                    
April 12, 2018 invoice
from AST in the amount of
$45,119.21.
 
7.                 
The Landlord submits contractor
and engineer invoices were submitted as the work progressed. The Landlord
submits that the engineering invoices from RCE relate to the preparation of the specifications, tendering documents, obtaining bids, meetings, and making a
recommendation as to which contractor to award the project. The engineer inspected the work completed
by the contractor for the duration of the project to ensure the work was
completed according to the specifications and complied with applicable building
codes. The Landlord further submits that RCE reviewed the contractor invoices
to confirm the amounts charged and then certified payment.
 
8.                 
The Landlord submits the invoice from AST was for the mobilization and delivery of equipment
which was required prior to the work commencing on the capital expenditure
project.
 
9.                 
The Landlord relies on s. 26(2) of
Ontario Regulation 516/06 (“O. Reg 516/06”) which stipulates a rent increase
shall not be ordered in respect of a capital
expenditure unless the work was completed during the
18-month period ending 90 days before the FED date for the proposed rent
increase referred to in the application. The Landlord submits the work claimed
for the MUA unit replacement is one project and the work was completed on July 18, 2018 and not May 10, 2018 as
noted in the original application. The Landlord produced a warranty certificate
which confirms the MUA unit replacement was completed July 18, 2018. The
Landlord amended Schedule 2 of the application and the CAPEX summary to reflect
the correct completion date for this claimed capital expenditure.1












1 Landlord’s response
dated November 2, 2020 in response to deficiency letter issued by the Board which included copy of Warranty certificate for MUA unit replacement, at pages 3 and amendment to Schedule 2 and CAPEX summary at pages
17m 18.




10.             
The Landlord submits it received rebates in the amount of
$12,931.76 towards the new MUA units which are energy efficient. The Landlord
requested an amendment to the application for the claimed capital
expenditure for the MUA unit replacement to reduce
the amount claimed in the original application by $12,931.76 to compensate for
the rebates received.2
 
Analysis
 
11.             
The application is amended to
reflect that the completion date for the MUA unit replacement was July 18, 2018
as supported by a copy of the warranty certificate produced by the Landlord.
The application is further amended to reduce the amount of the claimed costs
because the Landlord
received two rebates
for this capital
expenditure. I find there is
no prejudice to the Tenants regarding these amendments to the application. The
total amount the Landlord is entitled to claim for this capital expenditure is
$195,451.24.
 
12.             
I
find the evidence
produced by the Landlord supports
that the repairs
were completed in the
18-month period that ends 90 days before the FED date of the proposed
rent increase noted in the
application, February 1, 2020. This aligns with the requirements set out within
Guideline 14 of the Board’s guidelines. Therefore, I find the Landlord has complied
with s. 26(2) of O. Reg. 516/06. I find the Landlord is entitled to payment for
the November 30, 2017 invoice from RCE in the amount of
$5,819.50 and the April 12, 2018 invoice from AST
in the amount of $45,119.21.
 
Issue#1 – Financial consideration
 
Tenants submissions
 
13.             
The Tenants at XXX, MV, DR, AR, JA,
CE, and ST submit that they oppose the above guideline increase.
The Tenants submit
that they are on a fixed monthly income and an above guideline
rent increase would cause them undue financial hardship in addition to
emotional and financial stressors created by the Covid-19 pandemic. ST submits
that the Landlord should have set aside funds to cover the costs of the capital
expenditures.
 
Landlord’s reply
 
14.             
The Landlord submits that the affordability issues raised by the Tenants
have no bearing on the application. Further, the Landlord submits the
legislation does not require the Landlord to set aside funds to cover the
claimed repairs.
 
 
 
 












 
2 Ibid, copy of two rebates
received by the Landlord, each in the amount of $6,465.88 at pages 13-16.




Analysis
 
15.             
The Act does not provide the Board with the authority to consider the Tenants’ financial circumstances when determining
whether or not to grant the costs claimed in the
Landlord’s application. While the
timing of the Covid-19 pandemic is unfortunate, the Board is still required to
make a determination regarding the claimed capital expenditures. The Act and O.
Reg. 516/06 set out the requirements which allow a landlord to claim the incurred costs
for capital expenditures. As such, the Landlord is not required to set aside funds to cover the costs of capital expenditures. However, a landlord
must incur and pay for in full, all of the expenses for the capital expenditure
prior to submitting an application to the Board for an above guideline rent
increase.
 
Issue#2 – Garage repairs
are incomplete and water leak
 
Tenants submissions
 
16.             
The Tenants at XXX., R and L W
submit the garage repairs are incomplete and there is a problem with water in
front of the building, causing heaving with
the asphalt. The Tenants further
submit that there was no second topcoat
applied to the asphalt and
only some of the concrete curbs were replaced. They also submit the general
condition of the building is deteriorating.
 
17.             
Another Tenant at XXX, CL submits
the garage repairs from the previous application SWL-11100-17 are incomplete
because there are issues with water leakage inside the garage which causes
water to pool. The Tenant further submits that a portion of the ceiling has
chipped off above a parking spot of level one of the parking garage which has
not been repaired. The Tenant submits that water runs down the grade of the newly paved
parking lot and does not dry up. Lastly, the Tenant submits
that since the asphalt and
sidewalk repairs were completed, there are cracks in the sidewalk and asphalt,
and parts of the asphalt are heaving. The Tenant produced photographs and
videos in support of these issues.
 
Landlord’s reply
 
18.             
The Landlord submits that the garage is being
restored in phases
as the nature of the work
would interfere with the parking spaces. The Landlord submits this phased
approach would allow some Tenants to park in the garage while other areas are
being addressed to limit the amount of displacement of the vehicles. The
Landlord submits that the most seriously deteriorated areas were completed first and claimed
in a prior application SWL-
11100-17. The Landlord submits it is currently tendering the next phase of the
garage work to begin shortly.
 
19.             
The Landlord submits there
is an issue with the lawn drainage
system which has resulted
in water leaking onto the asphalt and the Landlord
has retained an engineering consultant to address this issue.
 
20.             
The Landlord submits the scope of
the work for the asphalt and sidewalk replacement was to address the areas which required restoration. The Landlord produced
photographs




with their reply submissions
dated December 21, 2020 showing the deterioration prior to the repair work
being completed on the asphalt and the sidewalks. The Landlord submits that
prior to the repairs, a vast majority of the parking lot and driveway was
constructed with interlocking brick which sat on top of a stone dust base. The
Landlord submits the deterioration caused numerous bricks to shift, become
uneven, curbs to detach and slant, and posed a tripping hazard.
The Landlord submits the old bricks which required removal could not be re-installed as they
were damaged and new bricks could not be installed as they would sit much
higher than the old bricks and would pose a trip hazard. The Landlord submits
it only replaced the curbs that were detached or deteriorated and areas which were in good or serviceable condition were not replaced. The Landlord submits
the cracks in the asphalt are being addressed under warranty with the
contractor, FP.
 
Analysis
 
21.             
I
find the garage
restoration is separate
from the asphalt
and sidewalk restoration. I accept the
Landlord’s submission that previous repairs to the parking garage which were claimed in a prior application
SWL-11100-17 were to address the most seriously deteriorated areas within the
parking garage and that the parking garage is being restored in phases to limit
the parking displacement of vehicles.
I accept the Landlord’s submission that the next phase of the garage
restoration is being commenced shortly.
 
22.             
I accept the Landlord’s submission
that the issue regarding the water leaking onto the asphalt is the result
of a lawn drainage issue
which the Landlord
has hired an engineering consultant to address. I also
accept that the Landlord is addressing the cracks in the asphalt which are
being repaired under the warranty of FP. The maintenance concerns raised
by the Tenants do not meet any of the tests set out in s.126(12) of the Act and as a result they cannot be
considered with the Landlord’s application.
 
23.             
I find the claimed capital
expenditure for the asphalt and sidewalk replacement were necessary to comply
with housing standards and therefore are an eligible capital expenditure pursuant
to s.126(7)(b) of the Act. I find the photographs produced by the Landlord of the driveway,
parking lot, and curbs prior to the completion of the repairs support this.
 
Issue#3 – New heating
system has made the hallways
of the building uncomfortable during
the summer months
 
Tenant’s submissions
 
24.             
The Tenant at XXX, JA submits that
since the new heating system was installed, the hallways of the building are
vey uncomfortable during the summer months as no air conditioning was
installed. The Tenant also submits that the Board should consider the age of the building
and the lack of maintenance over the years which has resulted in higher repair
bills.




Landlord’s reply
 
25.             
The Landlord submits that neither
the previous MUA units, nor the new MUA units installed, provide the service
of air conditioning. The Landlord
submits the only service that both
the previous MUA units and the new MUA units provide is fresh air to the
hallways and heated air as required in the winter.
The Landlord submits
that the age and
the maintenance of the building cannot be considered within this application.
 
Analysis
 
26.             
I find the claimed capital
expenditure for the MUA unit replacement meets the definition of a capital
expenditure pursuant to s.18 of O. Reg. 516/06. I accept the Landlord’s
submission that the neither the prior MUA units or the newly installed MUA
units provided air conditioning to the building. I accept the replacement of the MUA units was for the purpose of
providing fresh air ventilation and heated air during the winter. The Landlord
correctly submits that the age of the building and the history of regular
maintenance are not relevant to the issues before the Board. As such, they
cannot be considered. I find this claimed
capital expenditure was necessary and is an eligible capital expenditure in accordance with
s.126(7)(b) and (c) of the Act.
 
Issue#4 – Response date to the application from the Tenants
 
Tenant’s submissions
 
27.             
The Tenant, CE submits that the
application was delivered to the Tenants on two dates: October 28, 2020 and November 1, 2020. The Tenant questions whether this would
alter the date for the Tenants to respond to the application?
 
Landlord’s reply
 
28.             
The Landlord concedes that the notice of hearing
package was delivered to all Tenants
on October 28, 2020 and an
amended application was delivered to all Tenants on November 2, 2020. The
Landlord submits the documents were served on all Tenants in advance of the
deadline of November 5, 2020. The Landlord submits the Tenants had ample time
to review the documentation and provide their submissions.
 
Analysis
 
29.             
The Certificate of Service
confirms that the Landlord served the notice of hearing and application to the
Tenants on October 28, 2020. Further correspondence from the Landlord received
by the Board on November 2, 2020 notes the Landlord requested to amend the application. The amendments requested
by the Landlord included changing
the date of completion for MUA replacement to July 18, 2018 and to
reduce the claimed costs for the
replacement of the MUA units by $12,931.76 due to the Landlord receiving
rebates. I accept the Landlord’s submission that the amendments to the
application were served on the Tenants named in the application on November 2,
2020. I find the Tenants had an ample opportunity to respond to the original
and amended application and that they have not been prejudiced by the
application being served on two separate dates, five




days apart.
 
Issue#5 – Raised sidewalk/island areas for planters
included
 
Tenant’s submissions
 
30.             
CE submits that raised sidewalk/island areas for planters
were included in the
repairs to the asphalt and sidewalk repairs and that these planters were not
there previously. CE further submits that both buildings in the residential
complex are at least 29 years old and the interlocking stone sidewalks and
driveways in front of the building were in a state of disrepair.
 
Landlord’s reply
 
31.             
The Landlord submits that the
islands previously existed but were filled with loose rock which presented a
trip hazard. The Landlord produced before and after photographs of the islands
in support of their position. The Landlord submits the costs for the planters
was not included in the scope of the work because the planters already
existed on site and
were relocated to the islands after the project was completed. The Landlord
submits only the cost to restore the landscaping to its original condition was
included.
 
Analysis
 
32.             
I find the before and after
pictures produced by the Landlord support that the islands required repair
and posed a trip hazard.
As a result, I find that this work was necessary
pursuant to s. 126(7)(b) of the Act. I find the Landlord has not claimed costs
for the planters in the application.
 
Issue#6 – Unbalanced airflow
in hallways since MUA unit
replacement
 
Tenant’s submissions
 
33.             
CE submits that since the MUA unit
replacement, the hot and cold airflow in the
hallways is unbalanced, there are restaurant odours in the hallways and elevators, and black stains on the walls and celling
adjacent to the vents.
 
Landlord’s reply
 
34.             
The Landlord submits the MUA units are functioning properly and there is no issue the Landlord is aware of regarding the
airflow. The Landlord further submits they will investigate this issue and
address the staining as required.
 
Analysis
 
35.             
I
do not find the Tenant
CE has established there is an issue with the airflow,
or that the staining on the ceilings and walls rises to the level of a
serious breach, pursuant to s.126(12) of the Act. As a result, I am unable to
consider these issues further. I accept the Landlord’s submission that these
issues will be investigated and addressed as




required.
 
Issue#7 – Function of an MUA Unit
 
Tenant’s submissions
 
36.             
The Tenant at 315 XXX., CV submits that she is unaware of what an MUA unit does.
 
Landlord’s reply
 
37.             
The Landlord submits the function of an MUA unit was addressed in a prior reply of December 2020 from the Landlord.
 
Analysis
 
38.             
In its December 21, 2020 reply submission, the Landlord provided
an explanation of the
function of an MUA unit and an explanation why three of the MUA units at the
residential complex required replacement. This is addressed in paragraph 4
above.
 
Issue#8– Capital
expenditure costs to be divided
among all units in the residential complex
 
Tenant’s submissions
 
39.             
CE submits that the claimed capital
expenditure costs should be divided
among all units in both buildings of the residential complex. CE further
submits that
the number of parties
listed in Schedule
of Parties (“SOP”) exceeds
the number of units
referenced within the application.
 
Landlord’s reply
 
40.             
The Landlord submits that there
are 413 units which are party to this application and the above guideline rent
increase is spread over the entire 469 units within the residential complex. The Landlord submits
there are more names on the SOP than units
identified in the application
because all leaseholders who are party to the application have been included.
 
Analysis
 
41.             
The calculation for the above
guideline increase has been apportioned based on the total 469 units within the two-building residential complex. It its application, the Landlord has identified 413 units that the above
guideline rent increase is to be applied to. It is the
Landlord’s choice which units the above guideline rent increase is to be applied to. Further, I agree with the Landlord’s
submission that additional names on the SOP identify all leaseholders who are
party to the application.




Issue#9 – Front entrance slope at XXX.
 
Tenants submissions
 
42.             
The Tenants ST and CV submit there
are safety issues regarding the slope of the ramp being too steep at the front
entrance and there are no distinguishing marks on the step which drops
to the lower landing at 315 XXX CV
submits the cement work at the rear
of the building is incomplete as
large patio stones are uneven and pose a trip hazard.
 
Landlord’s reply
 
43.             
The Landlord submits that the submissions from the Tenants
were provided by the Board to the Landlord on February 5,
2021. The Landlord submits that the engineer who was hired for this project,
Infin8 Consulting Group Ltd. (“Infin8”) was consulted regarding the slope of
the front entrance ramp and they confirmed the slope complies with the current building
code requirements. The Landlord
submits Infin8 confirmed the slope on
the ramp was gentle enough that installation railings was not required.
 
44.             
The Landlord submits there is a grey stripe
on the step to differentiate it from the landing.
The Landlord produced a photograph which supports this. The
Landlord submits this was
done as a precautionary measure and that Infin8 confirmed it is not a building
code requirement.
 
45.             
The Landlord submits at the time
the work was carried out for the completion of the asphalt and sidewalk
replacement; the rear area of the building referenced in Carole Varga’s
submissions was not an issue. The Landlord submits based on this Tenant’s
submission, the Landlord
has now obtained several quotes to level this area and rectify this issue.
 
Analysis
 
46.             
I
accept the Landlord’s submission that the engineer, Infin8,
has confirmed that the slope to the front entrance ramp at XXX
complies with the building code. The Tenants have not produced evidence which
supports that the slope on the front entrance ramp does not comply
with the building
code or requires
the installation of a railing.
The picture produced by the Landlord supports there is a grey stripe
which differentiates the step from the landing. I find the repairs identified
arose after the project was completed and are not part of the project being
claimed by the Landlord.
 
Conclusion
 
47.             
The Landlord has incurred these
eligible capital expenditures that satisfy the
requirements of 126(7)(b)(c) and (e) of the Act. These capital
expenditures are necessary to comply with s.20(1) of the Act, to maintain
the provision of mechanical and ventilation
systems within the residential complex, and to promote energy conservation.
Therefore, the above guideline
increase is granted
for this application. The cost of $12,931.76 for the
two rebates received by the Landlord for the MUA unit replacement have been
removed




from the calculation for the above guideline increase.
 
48.             
The Certificate of Service
filed by the Landlord on October 29, 2020, indicates that some rental
units listed in the application were not served with the application and notice
of hearing. The Board shall therefore amend the application by removing these
rental units. As a result,
this order for a rent increase above the guideline
under section 126 of the Act
does not apply to the following units: 305 XXX: 103, 106, 115, 211, 305,
402, 406, 605, 611, 806, 904,
1003, 1014, 1104, 1205, 1210, 1212, 1401, 1406, 1411,
1504, 1514, 1603, 1610, 1612, 1706, 1805 and 1911;
315 XXX: 214, 406,
508, 512, 514, 609, 701, 712,
914, 1005, 1012, 1105, 1607, 1704, 1705, 1710, 1806,
1812, 1901 and 1908.
 
49.             
The weighted useful life for the capital expenditures is as specified on Schedule 3.
 
50.             
The first effective date of
the rent increase above the guideline is February 1, 2020.
 
51.             
The Landlord or the Tenants shall pay to the other any sum of money that
is owed as a result of this
order within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.                 
The Landlord may increase
the rents charged
by the percentage increases and within the time periods set out in Schedule 3.
 
2.                 
The percentage increase set out in Schedule 3 may be taken in addition to the annual guideline in effect on the increase
date for the unit.
 
3.                 
The Landlord or the Tenants shall pay to the other any sum of money that
is owed as a result of this
order within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
 
 
 
 
January ?, 2022
Date Issued                                                                 Kimberly Parish
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
4th Floor,
150 Dufferin Avenue,
Suite 400 London, ON, N6A5N6
Fax No: 519 - 679 -7290
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.




Important Notes:
 
1.                 
The landlord may increase
the rent charged
by the ordered increase within
the time period specified if at least 12 months
have passed since the last rent increase or since the tenant moved in, and if
the landlord has given the tenant at least 90 days proper Notice of Rent
Increase. Any part of the ordered increase that is not taken within the time
period specified cannot be added to subsequent rent increases in subsequent
time periods.
 
2.                 
If the landlord has given a Notice of Rent Increase
for a rent increase that is less than the
ordered increase, the landlord may only take the rent increase set out in the
Notice.
 
3.                 
The ordered increase does not affect
tenants who moved
into the complex
on or after November 3, 2019. The landlord cannot add the ordered
increase to the rents these tenants pay.




File Number:
SWL-38129-19
Schedule 4 - Rent Reduction related
to Capital Expenditures
 
A.   
Date of Rent Reduction
 
If the Tenant’s rent is increased based on capital
expenditures during the period
2020 then:
 
The date of the rent
reduction will be the day
before:
•                    
the date of the Tenant’s first rent increase
under this order, plus
•                    
the number of years
for the weighted
useful life for capital expenditures for the unit (set
out in Schedule 3).
 
Example:
If the Tenant’s rent was increased on June 1, 2007 and the weighted
useful life for capital expenditures is 10 years,
then the rent will be reduced on May 31, 2017.
 
 
If the Tenant’s rent was not
increased based on capital expenditures during the period 2020 but was increased during the
later periods set out in the order then:
 
The date of the rent
reduction will be the day
before:
•                    
the First Effective Date of Rent Increase in this order,
plus
•                    
the number of years
for the weighted
useful life for capital expenditures for the unit (set
out in Schedule 3).
 
Example:
If
the first effective date of increase
in this order is April 1, 2007 and the weighted useful life for capital expenditures is 12 years,
then the rent will be reduced on March 31, 2019.
 
 
B.   
Amount of the Rent Reduction
 
If the Tenant’s rent is increased
by the total percentage increase
set out in this order
then: The rent must be reduced
by the total percentage increase set out in this order for capital expenditures.
 
If the Tenant’s rent is not increased by the total percentage increase
set out in this order then:
The rent must be reduced by an
amount determined in accordance with the prescribed rules which may be equal
to or less than the total percentage increase set out in this order for capital
expenditures.
 
 
 
 
Schedule 4 - Page 1 of 1

