Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-06
File number:	
SWL-53375-21

Citation:	Melo v Ellis, 2022 CanLII 51456 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpsmr>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-53375-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


5, 318 DOLPH STREET S CAMBRDIGE ON N3H2C2


 




Between:


Amy Melo Jimmy Melo


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Jordan
  Ellis


Tenant



 
 
 
Amy Melo and Jimmy Melo (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
Jordan Ellis (the 'Tenant') because
the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone
the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully caused
undue damage to the premises; and because the Tenant, another occupant of the
rental unit or a person the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
seriously impaired the safety of any person.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on December 20, 2021.
The Landlords and the Tenant attended the hearing. The Tenant declined the
opportunity to speak with Tenant Duty Counsel before the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Landlords
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
the Tenant because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or
someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully caused
undue damage to the premises; and because the Tenant, another occupant of the
rental unit or a person the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
seriously impaired the safety of any person. The N7 notice was served on the
Tenant on July 28, 2021.
 
2.    
In the N7 notice, the Landlords alleged
that on July 25, 2021,
the Tenant set off some sort
of smoke in the residential complex. On July 27, 2021, there was water backing
up through the Tenant’s sink.
Rather than contact the Landlords, the Tenant contacted the fire department.
 
July 25,
2021
 
3.     It was undisputed that the Tenant
had issues with the upstairs tenant. On July 25, 2021, in the early morning, the Tenant notified
the Landlords that there was a lot of water coming




 
into his unit. The Landlords
attended the Tenant’s
unit and entered without 24-hour notice or
consent. The Landlords noticed smoke and wanted to locate its origin. The
Tenant refused further entry. Other tenants in the residential complex notified
the Landlords that there was fire and orange flames. The police and fire
department attended the residential complex.
 
4.     The Landlords submitted
that they entered
the unit without
24 hr notice or consent
because they were fearful
of the water damage in the unit. When they entered, they smelled a burnt
chemical and saw smoke. However,
the Tenant demanded
they leave. The Tenant refused the police and fire department
entry into the unit. After the Landlords were refused entry, they went outside
and saw a pipe venting from the Tenant’s window to outside and the smell was
escaping it. The Tenant placed tin foil
on his windows which prevented anyone from seeing into the unit. Other tenants are fearful of the dispute
between the Tenant and the upstairs tenant
and many have reported orange
residue on their
items as a result of the
smoke.
 
5.    
The Tenant testified
that on July 25, 2021, he awoke to a dripping sound at 5:30 a.m. He called the police because
he believed this was deliberate from the tenant
in unit 1. After he called the police, he called the
Landlords to notify them of the damage. His position was that it was not an emergency. The Landlords entered
the unit anyways
and because it was
a non-emergency, he was upset and asked the Landlords to leave. He also noticed
the smoke when the Landlords attended his unit. The Tenant’s position was he
did not cause the smoke and the smoke entered all of the units. He did not deny
access to the fire department. The fire department entered his unit but did not
go further because they saw no reason to further investigate. The tin foil is on his windows
to block out the sunlight.
The pipe in his living room window is the exhaust for his air
conditioner. The smoke exited the pipe because air in the interior of the unit
is expelled through the exhaust of the air conditioner when turned on.
Photographs were submitted into evidence showing the air conditioner, tin foil,
exhaust and the interior of the Tenant’s living room.
 
July 27,
2021
 
6.    
The Landlords
submitted that on July 27, 2021, at approximately 5:00 p.m., a large amount of
water was entering
the Tenant’s unit through the sink. Rather
than call the Landlords, he called 911 instead. The fire department
informed the Landlords that the Tenant did not want to call them because he was
upset with them. The Landlords submitted that the Tenant neglected to call the Landlord, endangering the safety
of other tenants
and caused damage.
 
7.    
The Tenant submitted
that on this date, there was a large amount of water flow into his unit. He did
not neglect to notify the Landlords. He called the fire department and sent a
video of the flooding to the Landlords prior to the fire department’s arrival.
 
Law and Analysis
 
No Serious Impairment of Safety




 
 
 
8.    
Subsection 66(1) of the Act
allows a landlord
to give a tenant a notice of early termination if:
(a)     an act or omission of the tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or a person permitted in the residential complex by the tenant
seriously impairs or has seriously impaired the safety of any
person; and
 
(b)     the act or omission occurs
in the residential complex.
 
9.    
On a balance of
probabilities, I do not find that the Tenant committed any act or omission that impaired
safety. Regarding the July 25, 2021 incident,
I do not find that by denying
the Landlords entry, this means the Tenant caused the smoke
in the residential complex. Other than their speculation based on the Tenant’s behaviour, the Landlords’ only other evidence was that the tin foil and smoke exiting
the pipe demonstrates the Tenant caused the smoke. I
find the Tenant’s
photographic evidence persuasive that the tin foil is to block out the sun
and the pipe was merely the exhaust of the air conditioner. As the applicant,
the Landlord bears the burden of proving the merits of their claim on a balance
of probabilities (i.e., at least 51% of the way). Conceivably, if the Tenant’s
unit was the origin of the smoke, you would think the Landlords would call a member of the Fire department to attend the hearing
to testify to the cause or submit into evidence an Incident Report identifying
the cause. However, they did not.
 
10.  Regarding the July 27, 2021, I do not find that
the Tenant seriously impaired
safety. In my view, calling the fire department in response to the flood ensured the safety of others in the
residential complex.
 
Did not Wilfully
Cause Damage
 
11.  In order to be successful in a damages
claim, the Landlords, as the applicants, must establish all of the elements of sections 63 of the Act. It must be established that a tenant, an occupant of the rental unit or
a person the tenant permitted in the complex willfully caused undue damage to
the rental unit or complex.
 
12.  Regarding the July 25, 2021 incident, as
discussed above, I do not find that the Tenant caused the smoke and therefore,
the Tenant did not cause any damage.
 
13.  Regarding the July 27, 2021 incident, the
Landlords did not lead any evidence that the Tenant caused the flood.
If anything, the Landlord’s claim that the Tenant caused
damage by not notifying the Landlords right away suggests the Landlord
believes the Tenant was negligent, which is not the test to be met here. Based
on the foregoing, the Landlords’ application is dismissed.
 
14.  The Landlords submitted into evidence
complaints of the Tenant’s behaviour after the notice was served. Having found
that the tenancy is not terminated, I did not consider
this evidence as I did not need to make a determination regarding relief from eviction,
pursuant to section 83(2) of the Act.




 
It is ordered that:
 
 
1.    The Landlords' application is dismissed.
 
 
January 6, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Camille
Tancioco
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin
Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

