Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-04
File number:	
SWL-41295-20

Citation:	Acso P. M. Inc v Macleod, 2022 CanLII 49769 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpqlg>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
68
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-41295-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


2, 50 GORDON AVENUE KITCHENER ON N2H1N8


 




Between:


Acso P. M.
  Inc


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Selene
Macleod


Tenant



 
 
 
Acso P. M. Inc (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Selene Macleod (the 'Tenant') because the
Tenant has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful
right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant.
 
The Landlord
also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on March 1, 2021 at 11:00 a.m.
 
The Landlord
and their representative, Terri Van Huisstede, a licensed Paralegal, attended the hearing.
The Tenant, Selene MacLeod, who was self-represented, also attended the
hearing.
 
The Tenant declined to speak with Tenant Duty Counsel (TDC) before the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
This is a Landlord
application based on an N5 notice of termination served
on September 24, 2019 under section 64 of the Residential Tenancies
Act 2006 (the “Act) alleging that
the Tenant has
substantially interfered with the Landlord’s and or another tenants reasonable
enjoyment of the residential complex and/or the lawful rights, privileges or
interests. The details set out in the Notice states that the Tenant is not
maintaining the unit in a state of ordinary cleanliness as required by section 33 of the Ac”. The first notice specified that:
 
a)    
“inside the unit there was mud and dirt and food all over the floors
throughout”
 
b)    
“The bathroom
sink had watermark staining and debris




 
c)     
“There were pudding containers in water in the bathtub”
 
d)     “The kitchen
floor had recyclable material like plastic
bags and cartons
and boxes littered with
excessive dirt:
 
e)    
“There were recyclable materials throughout the unit”
 
2.    
Pursuant to section
64(3) if the Act, the Tenant had 7 days from the date the first N5 notices was served (September 25-October 1, 2019) to correct
the behaviour described in order to void the order and
continue the tenancy.
 
3.    
This notice
was void because
the Tenant corrected the problem within
the time period
set out in the notice.
 
4.    
On January 24, 2020,
the Landlord served the Tenant with a second, non-voidable N5 notice of termination pursuant
to section 68 of the Act which also alleges that the
Tenant has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful
right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant. The details set
out in the second N5 Notice state:
 
a)     “It was noted that upon today’s
inspections that the closet door in the hallway was missing its door which is currently
being stored on the balcony. The items on the balcony make the building
unsightly & is not meant to be used as a storage area. Belongings must be
removed as we’ve repeatedly asked on the past for”
 
b)     “The Balcony
to be cleaned & for the unit to be maintained at an ordinarily level of cleanliness
(s.33 of the Residential Tenancies Act)”
 
c)      “The Kitchen is a
potential fire hazard due to both stive tops being covered with items & containers with the possibility of being plugged
in (Agent unable
to inspect due to level of
cleanliness)”
 
d)     “The unit is extremely
dirty and although there’s been some improvement our contractors are not fully able to access repairs
due to the cleanliness of the unit”
 
e)    
“We’ve issued
legal in the past numerous
times & the tenants comply
temporarily.”
 
f)      
“We need a permanent
solution.”
 
5.    
The January 24, 2020
notice also informs the Tenant that this is their second notice within the past 6 months, that the Tenant
cannot void the notice, and that the Landlord
can apply to the Board for an order to evict the Tenant.
 
6.    
On January
24, 2020 the Landlord filed this application with the Board.




 
Landlord’s evidence
and submissions
 
 
7.    
The Landlord, Diane
Digiandomenico, President and Property Manager for ASCO P.M. Inc., testified that numerous N5 notices have been issued
to the Tenant since 2016. Ms.
Digiandomenico further stated that;
 
a)    
there have been continuous issues with the Tenant
 
b)    
that the Tenant always
wants more time to comply
with requests to enter the unit
for repairs, for the Landlord to enter in order to perform inspections, and or
to clean up the unit
 
c)     
that the unit has debris
 
d)    
that the Tenant is hoarding dirty
containers
 
e)    
the unit is cluttered
 
f)      
that during
an inspection her feet had stuck to the floor
 
 
8.    
While the Landlord testified about a fire in the rental unit, this allegation was not contained in
the second N5 notice and therefore cannot be considered.
 
9.    
The Landlord
representative submitted a series of pictures
taken on September 22, 2019, November 5, 2019, January 24, 2020
and February 1, 2021 by an employee of the Landlord who was not at the hearing
to testify. However Diane Digiandomenico was able to describe the pictures as
follows:
 
a)    
Exhibit 01 - is A picture
of the kitchen showing various
containers, cans, paper
and various other items strewn across the kitchen floor
 
b)    
Exhibit 2 – A picture of the living
room showing various
clothing items on the furniture, bags, boxes and other items
strewn across the floor
 
c)     
Exhibit 03 - A picture (November
5, 2019 9:21 AM) of the bedroom
showing various items on the
floor, clothing covering the bed, and a shelving unit laden with various items
 
d)    
Exhibit 04 – pictures
taken January 24, 2020 ( picture on 2nd row on the right) shows one of the 2 stoves with various food items, a bag of bread, a can, a juice bottle,
along with various sundry items on top of the stove
 
e)    
Exhibit 05 - is a series of 8 pictures taken February
21, 2021, a year after the 2nd Notice was issued. The pictures were submitted to establish the current state of the unit:




 
Tenant’s evidence and
submissions
 
 
10.  The Tenant testified that the unit was not
as cluttered as claimed by the Landlord and asserted that on the Clutter Imaging
Rating Scale, her unit at the worst could be rated as a “3” which does not warrant eviction.
 
11.  The Clutter Image
Rating Scale was developed by the International OCD Foundation. It is
a series of photographs showing varying degrees of clutter that help qualify
the severity of a cluttering problem.
The photographs are readily available on-line. There are different sets of
photographs for a kitchen, bedroom, and living room and they are ranked on a
numerical scale. Generally speaking a 3 or lower on the clutter scale is
considered to be acceptable; a 4 or higher indicates something needs to be
done.
 
12.  The Tenant also testified that since 2019
no agencies were called to provide any assistance or support her, nor have
there been any violations or complaints reported other than by the Landlord.
The Tenant has also testified
that she has mobility issues
and suffers from Arthritis in the knees.
 
13.  The Tenant stated that her unit is free of bedbugs, cockroaches, mice and other pests.
This statement was not challenged by the Landlord nor did any of the
photographs presented show evidence to the contrary.
 
14.  The Tenant stated that her unit does not have any pets or animals
in the unit. The Landlord
confirmed that her unit does not have any pets or animals in the unit.
 
15.  The Tenant submitted
that her rent is always
paid on time and that the only reason this situation is due to the Landlord not
liking her housekeeping.
 
16.  The Tenant agrees
with the Landlord
that some aspects
of her housekeeping may not be
to the Landlord’s approval, however that they do not rise to the level of
warranting eviction from her home.
 
17. 
The Tenant
has filed a Tenant’s Rights
(T2) application against
the Landlord and believes
that there is a campaign against her by other tenants and that she has received
death
threats. No
evidence has been supplied to support the Tenant’s claim that other tenants
have issues with her nor has any evidence been received confirming that the Tenant
has received death threats.
 
18.  The Tenant further
submits that she has severe mobility
issues, that there
is a pandemic, that local shelters are full, and that due to her
medical conditions she would be at risk of catching COVID if she were placed
on a shelter. In essence
she stated that she would
be reduced to sleeping in her car.




 
Analysis
 
1.    
The burden
of proof rests
with the Landlord who must establish that the condition of the unit
substantially interferes with the Landlord’s and or another tenant’s reasonable
enjoyment of the residential complex and/or the lawful rights, privileges or
interests.
 
2.    
In this case, the photographic evidence
and the Tenant’s
own testimony establish that the condition of
the unit may potentially threaten the lawful rights, privileges and interests
of the Landlord.
 
3.    
The Tenant
has, by her own admission, agreed that there is “cluttering” and that it may
on the face of it appear unsightly to the Landlord, but it does not spill over
to the surrounding units and areas.
 
4.    
Although the Tenant submitted that the Clutter
Image Rating Scale
would support her claim that the cluttering is not to an
unreasonable degree, a subject expert was not provided to give testimony as to the Clutter Image Rating Scale in relation
to the unit.
 
5.    
I have also received
submissions from both parties that the condition of the unit has varied since
2016. For a period of time the condition of the unit is acceptable to the
Landlord, shortly thereafter the condition of the unit deteriorates requiring intervention and action by the Landlord.
 
Relief from eviction:
 
 
6.    
I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief
from eviction subject to the condition(s) set out in this order pursuant to
subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1) of the Act.
 
7.    
Although the Landlord has established substantial interference, I am of the opinion that that the circumstances reflected in
the evidence and testimony do not rise to the level where it is necessary to
evict the Tenant.
 
8.    
I have also considered
the Tenant’s circumstances. The Tenant has in the past received assistance with
keeping her unit clean but has not had any assistance from outside agencies
since 2019. The Tenant has mobility issues and suffers from Arthritis in the knees. This may reflect
in her ability to maintain
her unit without
outside assistance. I also
recognize that the evicting the Tenant in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic could have
serious effects on her health and well-being
 
 
It
is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s application is denied
on the following conditions:




 
 
 
a.   
By February
28, 2022, the Tenant shall take all reasonable steps to seek out services that are available to assist
her with her personal and home care
 
b.   
By March
31, 2022, the Tenant shall declutter her entire unit bringing it to a level 3 or less on the Clutter Image Rating
Scale
 
c.   
The Tenant
shall maintain her unit in a state fit for habitation,
to a level 3 or less on the Clutter Image Rating Scale during
the period March 31, 2022 to March 31, 2023
 
2.    
If the Tenant fails to comply
with the conditions set out in paragraph
1 above, them within thirty
days of the breach, the Landlord may apply under
section 78 of the Act for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenant. The
Landlord mush make the application within 30 days of a breach of a condition
set out in paragraph 1 of this order.
 
3.    
The Tenant
shall also pay to the Landlord $190.00
for the cost of filing
the application by January 31, 2022
 
4.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before
January 31, 2022, the Tenant will
start to owe interest. This will be
simple interest calculated from February 1, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
 
January 4, 2022                                                                                 Date Issued                                                                       Peter Pavlovic
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin
Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor London ON N6A5N6
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

