Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-10
File number:	
SWL-55093-21

Citation:	Yates v Bacsalmasi, 2022 CanLII 108658 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jt2gr>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-55093-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


1, 106 KING
EDWARD STREET LONDON ON
  N5Z3T1


 




Between:


Janet Yates


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Michael Bacsalmasi


Tenant



 
 
 
Janet Yates
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
Michael Bacsalmasi (the 'Tenant')
because the Tenant,
another occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted
in the residential complex has wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The Landlord has also
applied for an order requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlord for the damage;
and because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the
residential complex has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest
of the Landlord or another
tenant. The Landlord
also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit
after the termination date.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on January 17, 2022. The Landlord and the Tenant attended the hearing. The Tenant
had an opportunity to speak with Tenant Duty Counsel before the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Landlord served two N5 Notices of Termination on
the Tenant. The Landlord’s application was filed on June 14, 2021.
 
First N5 Notice of
Termination
 
2.     The first N5 Notice was served on the Tenant on
February 25, 2021 because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone
the Tenant was permitted in the residential complex has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful
right, privilege or interest
of the Landlord or another tenant.
 
3.     The first N5 Notice alleges that during an inspection
of the unit on February 23, 2021, the Landlord discovered that the Tenant’s
smoke detector did not have batteries. Further, the toilet handle and toilet
regulator were broken. The Landlord testified that during the inspection, the
toilet had a serious leak. The toilet handle was broken in two and the pressure valve ate through
the steel. From her experience, the issue must have existed
for




 
a long period of time for the pressure
valve having ate through the steel. At the same time,
she checked the smoke detector and noticed the batteries were missing.
 
4.     The Landlord submitted that this substantially
interfered with the Landlord’s reasonable enjoyment as this resulted
in a higher water bill and had the Tenant
reported the issue in a timely matter, the handle would not have
been broken. The Landlord submitted into evidence the increased water bill
charges from the leak.
 
5.     The Tenant submitted that he noticed
there was a small water trickle in the toilet
at the end of January and reported it to the Landlord via email as soon
as possible. He also noticed that the chain for flushing
the toilet was broken and reported it to the Landlord on February
22, 2021, prior to the inspection. With respect to the smoke detector, the
batteries were dead, so they were removed. He followed up with the Landlord on
February 26, 2021, showing pictures and video of the smoke detector working after he replaced the batteries.
 
6.    
Subsection 64 (1) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’)
states:
 
A landlord
may give a tenant notice
of termination of the tenancy
if the conduct of the tenant, another occupant of the
rental unit or a person permitted in the residential complex by the tenant is
such that it substantially interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex for all usual purposes
by the landlord or another tenant or substantially interferes
with another lawful right, privilege or interest of the landlord or another
tenant. 2006, c. 17, s. 64 (1).
 
7.     I am not satisfied that the Tenant substantially
interfered with the Landlord’s reasonable enjoyment with respect to the toilet.
The Tenant’s believable and credible evidence was that he reported any issues that he could identify to the Landlord
as soon as he was aware.
 
8.     I am satisfied that the Tenant substantially
interfered with the Landlord and other tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex by removing
the smoke detector
batteries. While the Tenant testified the batteries were dead, it is not clear why he tampered
with the smoke detector
without first informing the Landlord. This is a serious risk of health and
safety. As such, I find that the first N5 notice is valid.
 
Second N5 Notice of
Termination
 
9.     The second N5 Notice was served on the Tenant on June
8, 2021 because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone the
Tenant permitted in the residential complex
has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful
right, privilege or interest
of the Landlord or another tenant and wilfully or negligently caused undue
damages to the premises.
 
10.  The second N5 Notice alleges
that Tenant caused
a sewer backup
and denied the Landlord
access to the Landlord to undertake plumbing repairs. The Landlord testified
that on May 19, 2021, there was a sewer backup and the clog was found directly
under the Tenant’s unit. The Landlord claimed that it was kitty litter. She
testified that she knew the Tenant caused the clog because his bathtub is slow to drain, and he has a cat. Submitted into




 
evidence was
an invoice from Discount Drain which stated that there was a blockage
approximately 15 feet down the drain. On May 26, 2021, the Landlord had to jack hammer
the line between the laundry room to the catch in the laundry room. The
Landlord asked the Tenant to use the bathroom in the unit beside
him while they undertake the
repairs, to which he denied. On June 2, 2021, the Landlord requested that she
attend to chemical clean the sewer line, to which he denied and asked to
reschedule.
 
11.  The Tenant testified
that he prefers to be home when the landlord
attend the unit. He does not
deny the Landlord
access, but requests
accommodation. He denied that the clog in the
drain was kitty litter from him. He is a vet assistant and knows how to
properly dispose of kitty litter. He has never put kitty
litter down the drain or washed the litterbox in the bathtub.
12.  The Landlord served two subsequent N5 notices. Subsection 68(1) of the Act states
that: A landlord may give a tenant notice of termination of the tenancy
if,
(a)  
a
notice of termination was given to the tenant under section
62, 64 or 67; and
(b)  
more than seven days but less than
six months after the notice mentioned in clause (a) was given to the tenant, an
activity takes place, conduct occurs or a situation arises that constitutes grounds for a notice of termination under
section 60, 61, 62, 64 or 67, other than an activity, conduct
or a situation that is described
in subsection 61 (1) and that involves
an illegal act, trade, business
or occupation described in
clause 61 (2) (a). 2006, c. 17, s. 68
(1); 2017, c. 13, s. 12.
 
13.  This section entitles the Landlord to serve a
non-voidable N5 if there is another incident that occurs more than seven days
but less than six months after the Landlord served the first N5 notice.
 
14.  On a balance of probabilities, I do not find that the
Tenant wilfully or negligently caused damage
to the rental unit. The Landlord testified that she believed
the clog to be as a result of kitty litter. However, it is
not clear that the clog was actually kitty litter. The invoice from
Discount Drain does not state what the blockage was. Further, I find the Tenant’s evidence to be believable and credible
that he does not wash his litterbox in the bathtub or put kitty litter in the
drain. As I cannot find that the Tenant caused the blockage, this portion of
the second N5 Notice is dismissed.
 
15.  I find that the Tenant interfered with the Landlord’s
reasonable enjoyment by denying her access to the unit. A landlord is entitled to attend a tenant’s unit, provided valid
and proper notice is give or in the case of emergency,
to undertake necessary repairs. The landlord's right of entry can be exercised if the tenant
is not in the rental
unit at the time of entry. The Tenant is not permitted to deny access
to the Landlord simply because
the time of entry
is not convenient to the Tenant.
 
DAMAGES
 
16.  The Landlord requested compensation for damage to the
rental unit. The compensation was based on her increased utility bill from the
Tenant not reporting the leak and the cost for the plumber to clear the
blockage in the drain.




 
 
 
17.  The Landlord’s claim for utilities
is denied. Utilities are not damages
pursuant to section
89 of the Act. A Landlord
can apply for utilities pursuant
to section 88 of the Act for applications
filed after September 1, 2021. Since the Landlord’s application was filed on June 14, 2021,
I cannot award utilities.
 
18.  As discussed above, I do not find that the Tenant
wilfully or negligently caused the blockage. As such, the Landlord will not be
awarded compensation.
 
SECTION 83 CONSIDERATIONS
 
19.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances
in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Act, and find that it would not be
unfair to grant relief from eviction subject to the condition(s) set out in this order pursuant to subsection
83(1)(a) and 204(1) of the Act.
 
20.  The Landlord submitted that relief from eviction should
not be granted because the Tenant
continues to deny her access
to the unit for repairs.
She testified that she had to reschedule approximately twenty times
because of the Tenant’s refusals. The Tenant submitted that he will continue to
try and accommodate the Landlord and provide her access.
 
21.  The Tenant continuing to deny the Landlord access to
the unit is not a positive consideration. However, as eviction is a remedy of
last resort, the Tenant should be provided another opportunity to preserve the tenancy, provided
he meet the conditions set out in this order.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.   
The Landlord’s application for eviction of the Tenant
is denied on the condition
that:
 
a)    
Provided the Landlord gives the
Tenant proper and valid notice to enter the unit as set out in Section
27 of the Act, or in
any of the situations as set out in Section 26 of
the Act, the Tenant shall provide the Landlord access to the rental unit; and
 
b)    
The Tenant shall not remove the batteries from the smoke
detector.
 
2.   
If the Tenant fails to comply with
the conditions set out in paragraph 1 above, then, within 30 days of the
breach, the Landlord may apply under section 78 of the Act for an order
terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenant. The Landlord must make the
application within 30 days of a breach of a condition set out in paragraph 1 of
this order.
 
3.   
The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord
$201.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
4.   
If the Tenant does not pay the
Landlord the full amount owing on or before February 21, 2022, the Tenant will
start to owe interest. This will be
simple interest calculated from February 22, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
balance outstanding.




File Number: SWL-55093-21

February 10, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

