Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-17
File number:	
SWL-53233-21

Citation:	Filtec Screens Inc. v Turbill, 2022 CanLII 108798 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jt2fz>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
File Number: SWL-53233-21
 



In the matter
of:


001, 34 RIDDELL STREET WOODSTOCK ON N4S6M1


 




Between:


Filtec Screens
  Inc.


Landlord




 


and


 




 


Nathan Turbill


Tenant



 
Filtec Screens Inc. (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Nathan Turbill (the 'Tenant') because the
Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in
the residential complex has wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the
premises.
The Landlord has also applied for an order
requiring the Tenant
to compensate the Landlord for the damage.
This application was heard via
video/teleconference on October
25, 2021.
Only the Landlord’s Agent Frank
Tang attended the hearing. As of
10:15 a.m., the Tenant was not present or represented at the hearing
although properly served with notice
of this hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The application filed
by the Landlord is based upon N5 notices of termination given to the Tenant that alleges that the
Tenant has wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the rental
unit or residential complex, and had substantially
interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment of the property by the Landlord.
 
2.     On July 16, 2021 the Landlord gave the Tenant a first
N5 notice alleging the Tenant has not maintained the rental unit and garage of the residential complex
in a ‘livable condition.
 
3.    
Under section 33 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’),
a tenant is responsible for the ordinary
cleanliness of the rental unit.
 
4.    
While “ordinary cleanliness” is nowhere specifically defined in the Act, the regulations, or explained in any of the Interpretation Guidelines published by the Board,
the standard of “ordinary cleanliness” is not a wholly subjective one.
 
5.     A plain reading
of section 33 makes it clear that “ordinary cleanliness” does not require perfect, or even near-perfect,
cleanliness and tidiness within the rental unit. It requires “ordinary
cleanliness” which I interpret to mean “reasonable cleanliness” in all of the




 
relevant circumstances. Some have
described this requirement in terms of “good housekeeping.” Whether that
standard has been breached falls to be determined on a case-by-case basis based, in my view, on the standards and expectations of reasonable
tenants.
 
6.     A state of uncleanliness resulting in undue damage
to the rental unit – damage beyond that caused by reasonable “wear and tear” over time –
will certainly contravene section
33. Likewise, clutter impeding
free entry to and exit from the rental unit may represent a fire hazard,
seriously impairing the safety of persons within the unit as well as breaching
the requirement of “ordinary cleanliness.” Further, a state of uncleanliness
causing the premises to be unhygienic or unsafe in any other way will also fall short the type of “good
housekeeping” required under section 33.
 
7.    
The determination whether a given rental unit meets the standard
of “ordinary cleanliness” is
necessarily involves a contextual and fact driven analysis.
 
8.     On any application before the Board,
the party making
an allegation in an application has the onus of proving those allegations on a balance of
probabilities.
 
9.     The standard of proof requires the party to show with
evidence that, “more likely than not”, their assertions are true and that evidence “must be sufficiently clear,
convincing and cogent to satisfy the balance of probabilities test.”
 
10.  The Landlord submitted a number of photographs of the claimed
damage and estimates for the cost to replace the
damaged property totals $1,000.00.
 
11.  The photographs did not prove
that the clutter,
state of disorder
in the unit had caused damage to the rental
unit beyond that arising from uncleanliness. Certain
photographs show some damage to kitchen cabinet doors, scraps on
walls and markings of graffiti.
 
12.  The Tenant did not attend
the hearing to make submissions.
 
13.  Section 89 (1) of the Act provides, that a landlord
may apply to the Board for an order requiring a tenant to pay reasonable costs
that the landlord has incurred or will incur for the repair of or, where repairing is not reasonable, the replacement of damaged property, if the tenant, another occupant
of the rental unit or a person whom the tenant permits in the residential
complex wilfully or negligently causes undue damage to the rental unit or the
residential complex.
 
14.  This wording means that a landlord must establish that it is more likely
than not that the
tenant, an occupant or a guest, wilfully or negligently caused each item of the
property damage claimed.
 
15.  In this case, I find that the state of disorder and uncleanliness in the rental unit falls
substantially short to warrant eviction of the Tenant.




 
16.  All in all, I was satisfied that the Tenant
or an occupant of the rental unit has negligently caused undue damage to the rental unit or residential complex for damage beyond that
caused by reasonable “wear and tear”.
 
17.  I find the Landlord will incur costs to repair
the damage and/or replace
property that was damaged and cannot be reasonably
repaired. I award costs of $500.00 for the damage that I considered beyond that
caused by reasonable “wear and tear”.
 
18.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief
from eviction subject to the
condition(s) set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1)
of the Act. Accordingly, I found it appropriate to deny eviction subject to the
Tenant meeting certain conditions. If the Tenant meets those conditions, the
tenancy may continue.
19.  The order contains
all the reasons for the decisions within
the order. No other reasons will be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
1.    
The Tenant have an obligation and
a responsibility under section 33 of the Act for ordinary cleanliness of the rental
unit. Effective immediately and for the duration of the
tenancy, the Tenant shall comply with section 33 of the Act.
2.    
If the Tenant fails to comply
with paragraph 1 above,
the Landlord may apply to the Board under section 78 of the Act, within
30 days of the breach without notice to the Tenant, for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict the Tenant.
 
3.     The Tenant shall pay to the Landlord
$500.00, which represents the reasonable costs
of repairing the damage and/or replacing the damaged property.
 
4.    
The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost of filing the application.
5.    
The Tenant shall pay the total amount owing**
to the Landlord on or before
February 28, 2022.
6.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before February
28, 2022, he will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from March 1, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
7.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing* on or before February
28, 2022, the Landlord has the right anytime after March 1, 2022 to
collect from the Tenant the amount owing or any outstanding balance as a result
of this order.
 
February 17, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Randy Aulbrook
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

