Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-17
File number:	
SWL-52620-21

Citation:	Cortese v Mc Lean, 2022 CanLII 108797 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jt2fv>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-52620-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


B,
  474 MILL STREET WINDSOR ON N9C2R6


 




Between:


Victor Cortese


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Scott Mc Lean


Tenant



 
 
 
Victor Cortese
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Scott
Mc Lean (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone
the Tenant permitted in the
residential complex has wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the
premises. The Landlord has also applied for an order requiring the Tenant to
compensate the Landlord for the damage.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on January 24, 2022. The Landlord and the Tenant attended the hearing. The Tenant
had an opportunity to speak with Tenant Duty Counsel before the hearing began.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     For the reasons that follow, the only live issue
before me is damages pursuant to section 89 of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’). On a balance of probabilities, I do not find
that the Tenant wilfully or negligently caused
undue damage to the rental unit. As such,
the Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
2.    
The Landlord served on the Tenant an N5 Notice of Termination on June 8, 2021. The N5
Notice alleges that the Tenant wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to
the rental unit. On May 12, 2021, the Landlord discovered that there was a foul
urine odor on the carpets, damaged carpets, damage to the walls and ceilings
from condensation, and the kitchen, bathroom and rear entrance
floors were damaged
from misuse and condensation.
Submitted into evidence were photographs of the alleged damage.
 
3.     The Tenant submitted that after the Notice was served,
he swept and washed the floors, washed the bathroom tiles, cleaned the bathtub,
used carpet cleaner to clean the carpet, and washed the walls.
 
4.     It was undisputed that while the Landlord was the landlord at the time the application
was filed, the Landlord has since
sold the unit and the Tenant has a new landlord. As such, the




 
issue of termination is moot as the Landlord
does not have standing to terminate the tenancy. The only remaining issue is
damages.
 
5.    
I
do not find that the Tenant wilfully
or negligently caused
undue damage to the rental
unit.
 
6.    
Subsection 89(1) says:
 
A landlord
may apply to the Board for an order requiring a tenant to pay reasonable costs that the landlord
has incurred or will incur for the repair of or, where repairing is not
reasonable, the replacement of damaged property, if the tenant,
another occupant of the
rental unit or a person whom the tenant permits in the residential complex
wilfully or negligently causes undue damage to the rental unit or the
residential complex and the tenant is in possession of the rental unit.
 
7.     The language of section 89 requires damage to be
undue. It is recognized that some damage will occur over the regular course of
time, due to regular wear and tear in a residential complex. Reasonable wear
and tear would not normally constitute “undue damage” (Kamoo v. Brampton
Caledon Housing Corp. 2005 O.J. No. 3911). The language also requires that the Landlord has incurred or will incur costs for the repair
or replacement of damaged
property.
 
8.     I am not satisfied that the Tenant wilfully or
negligently caused undue damage. While the photographs show that the unit may
be unclean, they do not suggest this issue could not be addressed with deep
cleaning. The Tenant’s evidence was persuasive that he in fact addressed the
cleanliness issue after the Notice was served.
 
9.     Even if I am wrong that the Tenant did not wilfully or
negligently cause undue damage, I am also not satisfied that the Landlord has
incurred or will incur costs. The Landlord testified that at the time he filed the application, the amount claimed
for compensation was the
cost he anticipated he would incur to repair the damages
in the unit. At the time of sale,
he took a loss because people did not
want to look at the unit. When
asked whether there were any deductions when the unit was sold, as identified
in the Agreement of Purchase and Sale, for example, he stated that there was
not. The Landlord will not incur costs because the unit has been sold. The
Landlord has not incurred costs because he was unable to produce any evidence
that he suffered a loss.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.   
The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
February 17, 2022 Date Issued
 
Camille Tancioco
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6




 
 
 
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

