Metadata:
Date:	2018-09-10
File number:	
SWL-19968-18; 
 SWL-19968-18-SA
	SWL-19968-18; 	 SWL-19968-18-SA
Citation:	SWL-19968-18-SA (Re), 2018 CanLII 141479 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/j0f7f>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/j0f7f
Content:


Order
under Sections 69 and 77(8)
Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File
Numbers: SWL-19968-18-SA
SWL-20358-18
 











 
 
 

NW (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to
terminate the tenancy and evict AJY and BM (the 'Tenants') because the Tenants
did not pay the rent that the Tenants owe (the ‘L1 Application’).
 
The Landlord also applied for an order to
terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenants because the Tenants entered into an
agreement to terminate the tenancy (the ‘L3 Application’).  That application
was resolved by order SWL-19958-18 issued on August
8, 2018.  The Tenants filed a motion to set aside order SWL-19968-18.
 
The L1 Application and the Tenants’ motion
were heard in Stratford on August 31, 2018.  The
Landlord, the Landlord’s Legal Counsel, GKC, the Tenant, BM, and the witnesses,
TW and MG, attended the hearing.  While KM initially signed the attendance
register, he did not represent the Tenants at the hearing.  BM attended on
behalf of both Tenants and spoke with Duty Counsel prior to the hearing.
 
Determinations and
Reasons:
The L1 Application 
 
1.     The Tenants have not paid the total rent they
were required to pay for the period from June 1, 2018 to September 30, 2018. 
Because of the arrears, the Landlord served a Notice of Termination effective
August 15, 2018.
2.     The Tenants are in possession of the rental
unit. 
3.     The monthly rent is $900.00.
4.     The Tenants have made no payments since the
application was filed.  
5.     The Landlord collected a rent deposit of $900.00
from the Tenants and this deposit is still being held by the Landlord.
6.     Interest on the rent deposit is owing to the
Tenants for the period from April 28, 2018 to August 15, 2018.
7.     The rental unit is located on the second floor
of the residential complex, above T.W.’s commercial office where he operates
his business as a chiropractor.  M.G. is T.W.’s receptionist and her desk is
located in T.W.’s office.  While the Nora Walden (‘N.W.’) is the named Landlord
on the tenancy agreement, T.W. typically attends to the daily management of the
residential complex and serves as the Landlord’s primarily agent for
interactions with the Tenants.
8.     The parties agreed that the amount outstanding
to August 31, 2018, inclusive of rent arrears ($1,800.00) and costs ($175.00),
is $1,975.00.  Although B.M. later equivocated on this acknowledgment, he
ultimately offered no evidence to contradict the Landlord’s calculations of the
balance outstanding.  
9.     B.M. ruminated at length on whether or not to
raise other issues with respect to the tenancy at the hearing pursuant to
section 82 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) or to file
his own applications regarding these issues.  Although he ultimately never
announced any clear decision on this point, he did describe several other
incidents of alleged harassment by T.W. beyond the events that provided the basis
and context for the set aside motion,  
10.  For example, B.M. testified that when T.W. first showed the
rental unit to the Tenants, he remarked that the Tenants would be “shitting in
my toilet” and that their feces would be coursing through his pipes, all the
while gripping his genitalia and generally intimidating them.  This bizarre
incident allegedly occurred even before the tenancy began.  However, despite
this ignominious introduction to the residential complex and alleged rumours
from disgruntled former tenants that T.W. was insane, B.M. nonetheless concluded
that the rental unit represented a good deal and maintained this assessment even
at the hearing.    
11.  He also recounted hearsay from the other Tenant, A.Y.J., with respect to an incident on or about May 1, 2018 when
A.J.Y. alleged that T.W. entered the rental unit while B.M. was at work. 
According to B.M., .J.Y. had claimed that T.W. had menaced him, forcing him to
go into the basement and ordering him to do “this and that,” apparently with
respect to a malfunction with the plumbing that had resulted in sewage spraying
“all over the toilet” in the commercial portion of the building.  
12.  B.M.
also stated that after the Tenants signed the N11 Agreement to End the Tenancy
(the ‘N11 Agreement’), T.W. felt entitled to enter the rental unit without
notice.  He stated that A.J.Y. had informed him that on an unspecified date, he
awoke to discover T.W. standing over him naked, ranting that the Tenants were
not permitted to store their underwear on the carpet.  
13.  Finally,
B.M. stated that T.W. had on an unspecified date forbidden A.J.Y. from cooking curry
or any Asian cuisine on the basis that he is of a non-Caucasian ethnicity.
14.   As A.J.Y. did not testify at the hearing, his
statements to B.M. were hearsay.  The essential
defining features of hearsay are an out‑of‑court statement adduced to prove the truth of its contents in the
absence of a contemporaneous opportunity to cross‑examine the
declarant.  A.J.Y.’s statements were also not reduced to writing.
15.   The function of the trier of fact is to guard against undue reliance
on hearsay evidence which is unnecessary or
the reliability of which is neither readily apparent from the trustworthiness
of its contents nor capable of being meaningfully tested at the hearing.  
16.   I find that to assign this hearsay statement the same evidentiary
value as direct testimony without allowing the Landlord’s Legal Counsel any
means of cross examining A.J.Y. on these allegations would be unduly
prejudicial under the circumstances.  While subsection 15(1) of the Statutory
Powers Procedures Act, 1990 permits admission of unsworn hearsay statements
and allows the Board Member to assign it the appropriate probative weight, for
the evidentiary concerns I have outlined above, I would assign this evidence
virtually no weight at all.
17.   T.W. flatly denied all of the Tenants’ allegations.  He testified
that on July 10, 2018, he attended at the rental unit with M.G. to
determine whether the Tenants had cleaned the residence sufficiently to allow
him to show it to prospective renters.  He had served the Tenants with 24
hours’ notice as well as a letter setting out a number of things he wanted the
Tenants to do to render the unit turnover ready.  Since the Tenants had agreed
to vacate the rental unit effective July 29, 2018, he was authorized to enter
the unit to show it to prospective tenants pursuant to subsection 26(3) of the
Act.  
18.   After
knocking on the door, he loudly announced his presence, shouting, “Joel, we’re
entering; we know you’re home.”  He testified that he observed A.J.Y. sitting in
a chair with a blanket pulled up to his chin; B.M. was not present.  A.J.Y.
assured T.W. that B.M. would pay the funds owing to the Landlord as soon as
possible.  T.W. and M.G. inspected the rental unit and found it in a generally
disheveled state, not fit for showing.  As they exited, T.W. encountered A.J.Y.
sitting on a stool, wearing only boxer shorts.  Remaining roughly six feet from
A.J.Y., T.W. informed him that he would be showing the rental unit as soon as
the next day and reminded him that the Tenants were scheduled to move out of
the unit on July 29, 2018.  A.J.Y. became irate with him as he believed that
T.W. was talking down to him.  M.G. testified that A.J.Y. was outside of her
line of sight when he and T.W. exchanged these parting comments, she confirmed
T.W.’s account of the content of this conversation.
19.   Later,
in light of B.M.’s subsequent allegations of sexual assault, he suspected that
the Tenants had set him up.  Specifically, B.M. attended at T.W.’s office on
August 14, 2018 and threatened to accuse him publicly of sexual misconduct if
he did not negotiate with the Tenants.  He noted that such an accusation could
ruin T.W.’s reputation as a chiropractor.  M.G. overheard this conversation
from her desk in the next room and confirmed T.W.’s account in her own
testimony.  Significantly, B.M. did not challenge any part of the testimony
offered by T.W. or M.G., including their evidence that he had attempt to extort
more favourable terms for the termination of the tenancy.
20.   Between
B.M.’s unsupported and rather fanciful hearsay and T.W.’s direct testimony, the
latter corroborated by M.G., on the balance of probabilities, I prefer T.W.’s
version of these events as the more persuasive evidence.  
21.   As
a result, I find that B.M. failed to demonstrate on the balance of
probabilities that the Landlord or her agent, T.W., harassed, obstructed,
coerced, threatened the Tenants or substantially interfered with their
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential complex.
22.  Although B.M. repeatedly stated that he required additional
time to vacate the rental unit, he offered no details in support of this
request.  Despite blaming T.W. for a temporary loss of employment, he confirmed
on several occasions that he has a new job and can pay the balance
outstanding.  As a result, I do not find that any postponement of eviction is
warranted.
23.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in
accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Act and find that it would be
unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the Act.
24.  The Landlord’s Counsel acknowledged that the eviction
provisions in the L1 Application would be redundant should the Landlord enforce
the eviction ordered by order SWL-19968-18, dated August 8, 2018.  However, he
stated a preference to maintain termination provisions in both orders out of an
abundance of caution, given the highly contentious relationship between the
parties.  It should be noted that once the stay of order SWL-19968-18 has been
lifted, the voiding options included in the L1 Application at paragraphs 8 and
9 of the order below would be rendered unenforceable.
The Tenants’ Set Aside Motion
25.  There was no dispute at the hearing that the parties signed
the N11 Agreement on July 9, 2018 (the ‘N11 Agreement’) with a termination date
of July 29, 2018 and that the Tenants did not vacate the rental unit on or
before that date.  
26.  However, B.M. testified that he signed the N11 Agreement
under duress and took the position that the Landlord and Tenant Board (the
‘Board’) should therefore set aside order SWL-19968-18, issued on August 8,
2018.  Specifically, his written statement filed in support of the motion read
as follows:
The
Landlord trapped me in forceable [sic] confinment [sic] and threatened me to
sign a termination aggrement; [sic] I went striaght [sic] to the police and
made and doccumented [sic] the harrassment [sic] in a police report with
charges pending, the officer told him the L2 was null and void I have a police
report the order is null and void [sic]
27.  Significantly, the above statement was signed by only B.M.
and not A.J.Y.  As noted above, A.J.Y. did not attend
the hearing or submit any statement to the Board recounting his own version of
events.  However, T.W. and B.M. largely agreed that A.J.Y. is significantly
less assertive compared to B.M. and is to some extent subservient to his will.
28.  By way of background, the tenancy commenced on May 1,
2018.  Term 7 of the tenancy agreement, signed by the parties on April 28, 2018,
assigns responsibility for payment of utilities to the Tenants:
7.    
Utilities
to be paid by the Tenant(s) are electricity, water, sewage, and garbage removal. 
Any other services/utilities such as cable, telephone, and internet are the
responsibility of the Tenant(s) to arrange and pay for.   
29.  B.M.
testified that on June 22, 2018, T.W. attended at the rental unit to collect payment
for an unpaid hydro bill.  B.M. objected to his presence in the common areas of
the residential complex, preferring T.W. to contact him first before
approaching the rental unit.  When B.M. answered the door, T.W. showed him a
bill in T.W.’s name and demanded payment.  B.M. informed him that he only had
funds to pay the rent due in a few days.  He testified that T.W. then reached
through the door and tried to grab him by the shoulders, apparently intending
to drag him from the unit and down the stairs.  He stated that T.W. said, “I’ll
take you to the fucking bank right now to pay this bill” and “blah, blah,
blah.”  He emphasized the accuracy of the latter quote later in the hearing.
30.  Under
cross-examination, B.M. reluctantly acknowledged that T.W. did not actually
make contact with him when he reached through the doorway, but attributed this
not to any shortage of violent intent on T.W.’s part, but to his own
preternaturally cat-like reflexes as a professional skate boarder that allowed
him to move quickly out of T.W.’s reach. 
31.  B.M.
testified that he informed T.W. that he was assaulting him and stated that he
was going to call the police immediately.  He shut the door, but this did not
deter T.W., who continued to stalk about outside the door, angrily threatening
to evict the Tenants.  B.M. stated that he was “so scared” and said, “Look man,
settle down” and slid the requested funds under the door, pleading for T.W. to
leave or he would call the police.  
32.  He
told T.W. that because he took the hydro money, he was no longer responsible
for payment of the rent for July, 2018.  He told T.W. that he would be short on
the upcoming rent and T.W. would have to wait until July 3, 2018 when B.M. was
next paid.  He took the position that this would be T.W.’s fault since he “stole”
the hydro money.  He stated that T.W. told him “that won’t do.”  B.M. then
advised T.W. that their relationship was now terminated due to T.W.’s conduct. 
B.M. stated that T.W. then presented him with the N11 Agreement.  Needing to
get to work and unable to “handle any of that crap,” B.M. initially refused to
sign as he was an ideal tenant.  However, according to B.M., since T.W. had B.M.
cornered in the rental, he was “forced” to sign the N11 Agreement in order to
escape and go to work.  Eventually, T.W. left and B.M. was able to exit the
rental unit.
33.  However,
he stated that T.W. then chased him while he tried to flee the premises in his
car.  He said that T.W. reached into the car, impeding B.M.’s ability to drive
as both grappled for control of the vehicle.  As B.M. noted, “This pissed me
off” and he attended at the “cop shop” to disclose the T.W.’s “heinous crimes”
and “savagery.”  Why T.W. would have chased B.M. after had already obtained his
signature on the N11 Agreement was not clarified.
34.  Later,
when A.J.Y. alleged that T.W. had been peeping through the window at him, B.M.’s
anger built up.  He stated that he has since refused to pay any further rent to
the Landlord.  As noted above, he blamed T.W. for the loss of his job, but did
not explain how this occurred.  B.M.’s account of these events also does not
explain how the N11 Agreement came to be signed and dated by both Tenants on
July 9, 2018, not June 22, 2018, despite his testimony that he alone signed the
form when T.W. coerced his cooperation during the harrowing encounter on the
earlier date.
35.  B.M.
testified that the police investigated his allegations by attending at T.W.’s
residence and ordered him not to harass the Tenants.  Although T.W. agreed that
the police spoke with him, they simply recorded his version of events and did
not take either party’s side in the conflict.  Both he and B.M. agreed that
B.M. was not privy to this interview.  Instead, B.M. claimed that the officer later
reported the substance of this exchange to him.  As well, in his written motion
to set aside the prior order, he claimed there were “charges pending” against
T.W.
36.  At
the hearing, the Landlord’s Counsel submitted an occurrence report obtained by
B.M.  The report confirmed that the Stratford Police Service (‘S.P.S.’)
investigated B.M.’s allegations that T.W. had assaulted him on June 22, 2018
and invaded the rental unit on July 10, 2018 to sexually harass A.J.Y.  Having
interview both B.M. and T.W., the officers concluded the report with the
following:
All parties
were advised there were no grounds to lay charges at this time and that the
matter at hand is a Landlord/Tenant Tribunal matter and not a police matter at
this time.
This
concludes police involvement in this matter.
37.  When the Landlord’s counsel confronted B.M. on the considerable
disparity between the police report and his written claim that the police
intended to charge T.W. with a criminal offence, B.M. was initially evasive.  Eventually,
he agreed that the police report did not reflect his version of events.  He
expressed displeasure with the S.P.S. since having paid to obtain the police report
under the Municipal Freedom of Information and Protection of Personal
Privacy Act, he expected the police provide a report that reflected his
version of events.  
38.  He also attempted to explain the lack of criminal charges
against T.W. by stating that the police complied with his instructions not to
“press charges” against T.W.  Despite B.M.’s claims of a vast knowledge of the
legal process, it would appear this latter story is derived more from American
television than reality.  Lastly, he speculated that the report may not correlate
with his expectations because the building he entered to provide his complaint
on July 10, 2018 may not have been a real police station.
39.  Ultimately, I find that B.M.’s account of his interactions
with the police regarding “charges pending” against T.W. is simply a
fabrication and that the officers never ordered T.W. to stop harassing the Tenants
or that they instructed T.W. not to enter the unit as he claimed at the
hearing.  Similarly, I find that his testimony that the officers offered a
legal opinion that order SWL-19968-18, issued on August 8, 2018, was “null and
void” is also not truthful.  Nonetheless, despite the content of the police
report, B.M. insisted that his version of events was accurate, asserting that
whatever he says is by definition fact.
40.  By contrast, I find that T.W. and M.G. offered a more
persuasive albeit less exciting account of the events of June 22 and July 9,
2018. 
41.  T.W. testified that at the beginning of the tenancy, he had
told the Tenants that they must set up an account with Festival Hydro to assume
payment for the utilities as required by the tenancy agreement.  
42.  As they had not complied by June 2, 2018, the hydro bill
for the rental unit came to him.  He sent a letter to B.M., reminding him of
his obligations under the tenancy agreement and informed him that the Tenants
owed the Landlord $152.00.  He agreed that he attended outside the rental unit
on June 22, 2018 and requested payment of the outstanding hydro balance and
that B.M. refused to pay on the grounds that he had no money.  He offered to
take B.M. to his bank to obtain the necessary funds, but vehemently denied even
attempting to grab B.M.  When B.M. announced his intention to delay payment of
the upcoming rent to a date of his own convenience, T.W. simply stated that he
was not happy with this turn of events.
43.  On July 9, 2018, after the Tenants had failed to pay the
monthly rent for June and July, 2018, T.W. invited them to his office and
proposed two options to resolve the issue: they could sign the N11 Agreement or
he would serve them with an N4 Notice to terminate the tenancy for unpaid
rent.  He denied ever blocking their path out of his office or using any
threats or profanity in the course of this conversation.  He stated that if the
Tenants had wished to leave, they could have simply opened the door behind
them.  He agreed that the encounter was confrontational, but attributed the
hostility to B.M. who assumed a belligerent attitude throughout the exchange,
at one point offering to engage T.W. in a physical fight.
44.  While B.M. incorrectly claimed that he could simply walk
away from the tenancy and scoffed at T.W.’s request that they clean the rental
unit before vacating it, both Tenants voluntarily chose to sign the N11
Agreement.  
45.  Having little reason to trust the Tenants after their
repeated failures to live up to their obligations under the tenancy agreement,
he asked M.G. to listen to their conversation from her desk out of view of the
Tenants.  While she could not see all parties during their conversations and
missed some statements by the Tenants, I find that she substantially confirmed
T.W.’s account of the events for both June 22 and July 9, 2018.
46.  As noted above, B.M. chose not to cross-examine either T.W.
or M.G. on their evidence, opting instead to berate them with his own version
of events at them, maintaining his position that he and A.J.Y. are victims and
entitled to unspecified but substantial compensation.
47.  I find that B.M. intentionally conflated the events of June
22 and July 9, 2018 when he testified that T.W. obtained his signature on the
N11 Agreement at the door of the rental unit on June 22 in order to falsely portray
his acquiescence to T.W.’s demands as the product of duress and intimidation.  
48.  T.W.’s version of events is simply more logical and
supported by the other evidence.  I find that he left the rental unit after
B.M. announced his intention to withhold the rent and later proposed the two
options to both Tenants in his office on July 9, 2018.  He proposed that the
Tenants sign the N11 Agreement on that date, not June 22, 2018 as he would have
had no reason to bring this form to the rental unit on June 22, 2018 since he
only attended at their residence to collect on an unpaid hydro bill, not
propose ending the tenancy.  
49.  I find that the Tenants voluntarily attended at T.W.’s
office at his invitation on July 9, 2018 after the Tenants followed through
with B.M.’s threat to withhold the rent for July, 2018.  Presented with the two
options described by T.W., both then signed the N11 Agreement precisely
according to the testimony of both T.W. and M.G.  This version of events is
consistent with the date on the N11 Agreement as well as A.J.Y.’s signature
obtained on the same date.  Both parties agreed that A.J.Y. was absent from the
rental unit on June 22, 2018 and B.M. did not challenge the Landlord’s evidence
that he was present at the meeting on July 9, 2018. 
50.  In light of all of the evidence, I prefer the evidence of
T.W. and M.G. to that offered by B.M.  While B.M.’s testimony was inconsistent,
unreliable and at times patently untruthful, T.W. offered coherent, detailed
and internally consistent descriptions of the relevant events that was
supported by M.G. and the documentary evidence submitted at the hearing.  As a
result, I find that the Tenants voluntarily agreed to terminate the tenancy on
July 29, 2018 and that T.W. exerted no duress or coercion to obtain that
agreement.
51.  Having regard to all the circumstances, I therefore do not
find that it would be fair to set aside order SWL-19968-18, issued on August 8,
2018.
52.  This order contains all of the reasons in this matter and
no further reasons will issue.
It is ordered that:
The L1 Application 
 
1.     Unless the Tenants void the order as set out
below, the tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenants is terminated.  The
Tenants must move out of the rental unit on or before September 21, 2018.
2.     The Tenants shall pay to the Landlord
$1,208.30*, which represents the amount of rent owing and compensation up to
September 10, 2018, less the rent deposit and interest the Landlord owes on the
rent deposit.
3.     The Tenants shall also pay to the Landlord
$29.59 per day for compensation for the use of the unit starting September 11,
2018 to the date they move out of the unit.
4.     The Tenants shall also pay to the Landlord
$175.00 for the cost of filing the application.
5.     If the Tenants do not pay the Landlord the full
amount owing* on or before September 21, 2018, the Tenants will start to owe
interest.  This will be simple interest calculated from September 22, 2018 at
3.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
6.     If the unit is not vacated on or before
September 21, 2018, then starting September 22, 2018, the Landlord may file
this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may
be enforced.
7.     Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of the unit to the
Landlord, on or after September 22, 2018.
8.     If, on or before September 21, 2018, the Tenants
pay the amount of $2,875.00** to the Landlord or to the Board in trust, this
order for eviction will be void.  This means that the tenancy would not be
terminated and the Tenants could remain in the unit.  If this payment is not
made in full and on time, the Landlord may file this order with the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced.
9.     The Tenants may make a motion to the Board under
subsection 74(11) of the Act to set aside this order if they pay the amount
required under that subsection on or after September 22, 2018, but before the
Sheriff gives vacant possession to the Landlord.  The Tenants are only entitled
to make this motion once during the period of the tenancy agreement with the
Landlord.
The Tenants’ Set Aside Motion
10.  The motion to set aside Order SWL-19968-18, issued on
August 8, 2018, is denied.
11.  The stay of order SWL-19968-18 is lifted immediately.
12.  Order SWL-19968-18 is unchanged.
 
September 10,
2018                                                       _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Kevin
Lundy
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue,
Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
If you have any
questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with
section 81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires
on March 22, 2019 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where
the rental unit is located.
 
*           Refer to
section A on the attached Summary of Calculations.
**         Refer to
section B on the attached Summary of Calculations.




Schedule 1
SUMMARY OF CALCULATIONS
 
File Number: SWL-20358-18
 
A.        Amount the
Tenants must pay if the tenancy is terminated:
 



Reasons for amount
  owing


Period


Amount



 



 Arrears: (up to the termination date in
  the Notice of Termination)


June 1, 2018 to
  August 15, 2018


$1,343.84



 



Plus compensation: (from the day after the
  termination date in the Notice to the date of the order)


August 16, 2018 to
  September 10, 2018


$769.34



 



Less the rent
  deposit:


 


-$900.00



 



Less the interest
  owing on the rent deposit:


April 28, 2018 to
  August 15, 2018


-$4.88



 



Amount owing to the
  Landlord on the order date:(total of previous boxes)


$1,208.30



 



Additional costs the
  Tenants must pay to the Landlord:


$175.00



 



Plus daily
  compensation owing for each day of occupation starting September 11, 2018:


$29.59 (per day)



 



Total the Tenants
  must pay the Landlord if the tenancy is terminated:


$1,383.30, + $29.59 per day starting September 11, 2018



 
 
 
 
 
B. Amount the
Tenants must pay to void the eviction order and continue the tenancy:
 



Reasons for amount
  owing


Period


Amount



 



Arrears:


June 1, 2018 to
  September 30, 2018


$2,700.00



 



Additional costs the
  Tenants must pay to the Landlord:


 


$175.00



 



Total the Tenants
  must pay to continue the tenancy:


On or before
  September 21, 2018


$2,875.00



 
 

