Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-24
File number:	
SWL-56055-21

Citation:	Windsor Essex Community Housing v Allen, 2022 CanLII 128597 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jv563>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-56055-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


308, 333 GLENGARRY AVENUE WINDSOR ON N9A1P6


 




Between:


Windsor Essex
Community Housing


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Joshua Allen


Tenant



 
 
 
Windsor Essex
Community Housing (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the
tenancy and evict Joshua
Allen (the 'Tenant')
because the Tenant
or another occupant
of the rental unit has committed an illegal act or has
carried out, or permitted someone to carry out an illegal trade, business or
occupation in the rental unit or the residential complex and because the
Tenant, another occupant of the rental
unit or a person the Tenant permitted
in the residential complex has seriously impaired the safety
of any person. The Landlord
also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after
the termination date.
 
This
application was heard via videoconference on January 31, 2022. Only the
Landlord’s legal agent, T. Mokhtari (TM), the Landlord’s witness, D. Amyotte
(DA) and the Landlord’s legal representative, C. Parrott, attended the hearing.
As of 11:29 a.m., the Tenant was not present or represented although properly
served with notice of this hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Landlord served
an N6 and an N7 Notice of Termination on the Tenant
on October 25, 2021. The Notices pertain to the same
incidents. They allege that the Tenant threw dirty needles off the third-floor
balcony, took down the smoke detectors in the rental unit, and broke his
balcony glass door and threw a bicycle and suitcase off the balcony.
 
2.     TM, the Landlord’s district manager, and DA, the
Landlord’s supervisor of the security team, testified having received
complaints of these events. Submitted into evidence were photographs of the needles
on the ground below the unit, the missing smoke detector, the broken balcony door, and the bicycle
and suitcase below the unit. DA concluded that the Tenant threw
the needles as security observed
there were extra needles left on his balcony.
Also submitted into evidence was a security witness statement reporting having
seen the Tenant throw the bicycle and suitcase off the balcony.




 
Law and
Analysis
 
3.    
Subsection 61(1) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’) states:
 
A landlord may give a tenant
notice of termination of the tenancy if the tenant or another occupant of the
rental unit commits an illegal act or carries on an illegal trade, business
or occupation or permits a person
to do so in the rental unit or the residential complex.
4.    
On a balance of probabilities, I find that the Tenant
committed an illegal
act in the residential complex.
The act of throwing items of the balcony constitutes mischief pursuant to the Criminal
Code, 1985 (the ‘Code’). While the Landlord submitted that the
Tenant was not charged or convicted of mischief, section 75 of the Act states
that,
 
The Board may
issue an order terminating a tenancy and evicting a tenant in an application
under section 69 based on a notice of termination under section 61 whether
or not the tenant or other person has been convicted of an offence relating
to an illegal act, trade, business or occupation.
 
5.     Even if I am wrong that the Tenant’s actions
constitute mischief pursuant
to the Code, I find that
the Tenant seriously
impaired the safety of another
person in the residential complex.
 
6.      Pursuant to section
66 of the Act, a landlord may give a tenant a notice of termination if an
act or omission of the tenant seriously impairs the safety of another person, provided that the act or omission
complained of occurs in the residential complex.
 
7.    
The Landlord submitted that exposed needles
were dropped near a daycare,
which posed a biohazard to
other tenants and to children. The removal of the fire detector poses a serious
risk of health and safety to other tenants as an inoperable smoke detector means that the Tenant and others may not
be aware of a fire. Finally, throwing large items like a bicycle and a suitcase
from the balcony
constitutes a risk of safety
to those in the residential complex, who may be passing
the unit.
 
8.     I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would be
unfair to grant relief from eviction
pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the Act.
 
9.    
The Landlord disclosed that there
are concerns that the Tenant’s unit is being used as a ‘drug den.’ The Tenant
did not attend to disclose any circumstances for me to consider relief from
eviction. In consideration of the foregoing, relief will not be granted.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The tenancy between
the Landlord and the Tenant
is terminated, as of March 7, 2022.
The Tenant must move out of the rental unit on or before March 7, 2022.
 
2.    
The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost of filing the application.




 
3.     If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord the full amount
owing on or before March 7,
2022, the Tenant will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from March 8, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
4.     If the unit is not vacated on or before March 7, 2022,
then starting March 8, 2022, the Landlord may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction
may be enforced.
 
5.     Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office
(Sheriff) is directed
to give vacant possession of
the unit to the Landlord on or after March 8, 2022. The Sheriff is requested to
expedite the enforcement of this order.
 
 
February 24, 2022 Date Issued
Camille Tancioco
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section
81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction
expires on September 2, 2022
if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental
unit is located.

