Metadata:
Date:	2018-04-10
File number:	
SWL-11849-17
	SWL-11849-17
Citation:	SWL-11849-17 (Re), 2018 CanLII 88671 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hv7p8>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hv7p8
Content:


Order
under Section 69
Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File
Number: SWL-11849-17
JP (the
'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict RS (the
'Tenant') because the Landlord intends to demolish the rental unit. 
 
This application was heard in Windsor on
March 29, 2018.
 
MH, the Landlord’s Legal Representative, attended the
hearing. The Tenant attended the hearing and declined
the opportunity to speak with Duty Counsel prior to the hearing as he had
previously been represented by counsel.
Determinations:
 
1.     
The Landlord requires the
rental unit to be vacated in order to demolish it. I am satisfied that the
Landlord has taken all reasonable steps to obtain the necessary permits for
this work.
 
2.     
As set out in the attached
reasons, I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance
with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to postpone the eviction until May
31, 2018, pursuant to subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act.
It is ordered that:
 
1.     
The tenancy between the
Landlord and the Tenant is terminated, as of May 31, 2018. The Tenant must move
out of the rental unit on or before May 31, 2018.
 
2.     
If the unit is not vacated
on or before May 31, 2018, then starting June 1, 2018, the Landlord may file
this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may
be enforced.
 
3.     
Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of
the unit to the Landlord on or after June 1, 2018.
 
April 10, 2018                                                                   _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Carol
McDermott
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue,
Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
If you have any
questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.




File
Number: SWL-11849-17
 
REASONS
Reasons
to Order SWL-11849-17 issued on April 10, 2018 by Carol McDermott.
 
1.   
The Tenant testified that he
accepts that the Landlord does intend to demolish the premises but that he
believes that that pursuant to section 83 the eviction should be delayed for a
period of time.  He could not identify what an appropriate length of time would
be. 
 
2.   
The Tenant testified that he
has disorders and disabilities that make it difficult for him, in his own
words, to fit into societal norms.  
 
3.   
He said that when the
Landlord gave given him the Notice to Terminate at End of the Term for
Conversion, Demolition, or Repairs (N13) on September 13, 2017, with a
termination date of January 31, 2018, the Landlord suggested that he start
looking for new accommodation immediately because he was hoping to start
demolition January 1, 2018.  However, he had been unable to focus on looking
for alternate accommodation during the 6 month period between then and the
hearing because he had been completely focused on preparing for the hearing.
 
4.   
The Tenant produced letters
that his former legal representative had obtained from his psychiatrist and the
Learning Disability Association that express the opinion that the Tenant has
multiple mental health disabilities which will be exacerbated by being
evicted.  
 
5.   
The Tenant testified that
the four month notice period required for this ground of eviction might be
adequate for other people but is not adequate for him because four months is
like four days to him.
 
6.   
The Tenant testified that
the Landlord has a duty to accommodate him because of his disabilities and that
the Landlord took no steps to fulfil that duty.  He said that he told the
Landlord that is disabled and wanted the Landlord to work with him to negotiate
a termination but the Landlord just told him to work it out for himself.  
 
7.   
The Tenant testified that on
December 14, 2017, the furnace stopped working and it took the Landlord 40
hours, during which time he texted him 15 times, to get it fixed.
 
8.   
The Landlord’s Legal
Representative testified that the letters the Tenant produced do not identify
any time frame or any manner in which the Tenant’s transition could be carried
out in a manner which would be less detrimental to the Tenant.  He said that
the Tenant has had 6 months’ notice but has taken no steps to find alternate
accommodation and the Landlord will be financially prejudiced if eviction is
delayed because he cannot start the demolition until the premises are vacant.
 
RELIEF FROM EVICTION
 
9.    Section 83(2) of the Act provides that the Board must review the circumstances and consider whether or not it should
exercise its powers to grant relief from eviction 
 
Mandatory Relief from Eviction
 
10. Section
83(3) of the Act sets out specific circumstances where the Board must deny
eviction, including where “the landlord is in serious
breach of the landlord’s responsibilities under this Act or of any material
covenant in the tenancy agreement”.
 
11. Although
the Tenant did say that his furnace did not work for 40 hours, I am not satisfied
that the Landlord was in serious breach of the Landlord’s obligations for the
relatively short delay in making the repairs. Furthermore, any breach that may
have existed was remedied almost four months ago.
 
12.  The
Tenant also said that the Landlord made some threats to sue him or charge him a
daily rate if he failed to vacate on the termination date.  I am not satisfied
that a threat to take legal action or charge a per diem rent is a breach of any
obligation of the Landlord. 
 
Discretionary Relief from Eviction 
. 
13. The Board
also has the discretion to grant relief from eviction in certain circumstances:
 
83.  (1)  Upon
an application for an order evicting a tenant, the Board may, despite any other
provision of this Act or the tenancy agreement,
 
(a) 
refuse to grant the application unless
satisfied, having regard to all the circumstances, that it would be unfair to
refuse; or
 
(b) order that the enforcement of the eviction order be postponed
for a period of time. 
 
14. The
Tenant asserted that he has a disability of which the Landlord was aware, and
the Landlord took no steps to accommodate his disability. I will first consider
the Landlord’s duties under the Ontario Human Rights Code (‘Code’) and
then consider the appropriate remedy within the context of all the circumstances.
 
Landlord’s duty not to discriminate
 
15. Subsection
2(1) of the Code provides that everyone has the right to equal treatment with
respect to housing, without discrimination because of race, ancestry, place of
origin, colour, ethnic origin, citizenship, creed (religion), sex (including
pregnancy, gender identity), sexual orientation, age, marital status, family
status, disability, or the receipt of public assistance. "Disability"
is defined by subsection 10(1) to include both physical conditions and mental
disorders.
 
16. The
Board’s Interpretation Guideline 17 addresses Code issues raised during the
course of an eviction proceeding. It is not binding upon me but it provides a
useful framework for analyzing this issue:
 
a.    Is the Tenant protected under section 2(1) of the Code?
b.    Has the tenant been discriminated against contrary to the Code?
c.    Has the Landlord accommodated the Tenant to the point of undue
hardship?
 
a).Is the Tenant protected under section
2(1) of the Code?
 
17. The
letters from the Tenant’s psychiatrist and the Learning Disability Association
unequivocally describe the Tenant as significantly disabled and the Landlord’s
Legal Representative did not deny that the Landlord was aware of the Tenant’s
disability. 
 
18. I am
satisfied therefore that the Tenant has a disability within the definition of
s.10 of the Code which includes a condition of mental impairment or
developmental disability. Therefore, he is protected by the Code.
 
b.) Has the Tenant been discriminated
against contrary to the Code?
 
19. There was
no allegation that the Landlord directly discriminated against the Tenant
because of his disability.  However, the Tenant argued that expecting him to
vacate with only four months’ notice was tantamount to adverse effect
discrimination because it would take him much longer than the four months’ in
which an average tenant might be expected to find new accommodation. 
 
20. In
determining whether the Landlord has discriminated against the Tenant contrary
to the Code because he wants to demolish the rental unit I am guided by the
following excerpt from Guideline 17:
 
………..the
discrimination may be indirect, such as a rule or standard applied by the
landlord that appears neutral but has the effect of discriminating against the
tenant because the tenant belongs to one or more of the categories contained in
subsection 2(1) of the Code. For example, a requirement that all tenants remove
their belongings from cupboards and drawers to enable the landlord to fumigate
all of the rental units may discriminate against tenants who are unable to
perform such tasks because of a physical disability. If the landlord is seeking
to evict a disabled tenant for failing to comply with this requirement, the
Member would take such discrimination into account in applying the Code.
The Divisional Court
in Connelly v. Mary Lambert
Swale Non-Profit Homes6 suggested that where the
landlord's application for eviction is based on the tenant's conduct, the
Member must also consider whether the conduct has been directly caused by the
tenant's disability.
If the
grounds for eviction contained in the landlord's application are unrelated to
the tenant's membership within one or more of the categories contained in
subsection 2(1) of the Code, the Member cannot find that the tenant has been
discriminated against by the landlord. For
example, if the landlord has filed an application for termination of the
tenancy based on arrears of rent, the fact that the tenant has a hearing
impairment is likely not relevant to the Member's determination of the merits
of the landlord's application. However, even if the Member finds that the
landlord's application is unrelated to the tenant's membership within one or
more of the categories contained in subsection 2(1) of the Code, the Member may
still take all of the tenant's circumstances into account when considering
relief from eviction pursuant to section 83 of the RTA. Both scenarios are
discussed below. [emphasis added]
21. In this
case, the ground of termination, demolition of rental unit, is unrelated to the
Tenant’s Code ground. Therefore, I am not satisfied that the Landlord is
discriminating against the Tenant by pursing his statutory right to seek
termination of the tenancy in order to demolish the rental unit. As a result,
it is unnecessary for me to consider the issue of accommodation up to the point
of undue hardship. 
 
22. However,
this does not mean that the Tenant’s disability is not relevant or cannot be
considered by the Board. On the contrary, the Board must still consider all the
circumstances in determining whether to exercise the discretion to delay or
deny the eviction under section 83. The relevant circumstances here include the
fact that it may take this Tenant longer than other tenants to secure alternate
accommodation due to his disability.
 
23. The Tenant
did not ask that the eviction be denied; he recognized that the Landlord
intends on demolishing the premises.  Instead, he asked for an extension of
time, but could not identify an appropriate amount of time.
 
24. The
Landlord’s Legal Representative agreed to delay the eviction until May 31,
2018, the date that the Landlord had already negotiated with the Tenant’s
grandmother who lives in another unit in the building. The Tenant said that May
31, 2018, was much too soon. 
 
25. The
letters from the Tenant’s psychiatrist and Learning Disability Association did
not identify a time frame and suggested that no amount of delay would prevent
the Tenant from suffering significant exacerbation of his symptoms. 
 
26. The
Landlord’s Legal Representative stated that the Landlord will suffer
significant financial consequences if the demolition is delayed.
 
27. I am satisfied that delaying the eviction until May 31, 2018, will
give the Tenant some time to find new accommodation without prejudicing the
Landlord.  This further delay will result in the Tenant receiving almost 7
months’ notice, which is about three months longer than the notice period required
by section 50(2) of the Act.  I understand that the Tenant was not able to
focus on finding new accommodation before this time because he believed that he
needed to focus on preparing for the hearing. My hope is that once the Tenant
receives this order, he will have the certainty he requires because he will
have the specific date by which he must vacate.  Although there is no doubt
that moving will be difficult for the Tenant, he has demonstrated an ability to
engage the assistance of support services when necessary.  Now that there is a
fixed termination date, support services may be more able to assist him in
making plans to relocate. 
 
 
 
April 10, 2018                                                                   _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Carol
McDermott
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue,
Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 

