Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-06
File number:	
SWL-53335-21

Citation:	Macfelix Property Management Inc. v Suresh, 2022 CanLII 51426 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpsmq>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-53335-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


206, 969 FELIX
AVENUE WINDSOR ON N9C4C7


 




Between:


Macfelix Property Management Inc.


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Babila Suresh
Suresh
Vilameswaran


Tenants



 
 
Macfelix Property
Management Inc. (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict Suresh
Vilameswaran and Babila Suresh (the 'Tenants') because they, another occupant
of the rental unit or someone they permitted in the residential complex have
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant. The Landlord also
claimed compensation for each day the Tenants remained in the unit after the
termination date.
 
This application was heard by way of video conference on October 25, 2021. The Landlord’s
legal representative Luisa Goncalves and the Tenants attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.   
The Landlord’s application is based on an N5 notice served to the Tenant on May 31,2021
with a termination date of June 28, 2021.
 
2.   
The rental unit is located in a 10-storey
apartment building consisting of 70 apartments.
 
Landlord’s evidence:
 
3.   
The Landlord’s N5
notice alleges that the Tenant substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment of the Landlord and other residents by parking their vehicle within the residential complex without
paying or registering for a parking
spot with the Landlord.
 
4.   
The Landlord entered
into evidence a copy of the Tenants lease agreement (LL exhibit #1). The lease agreement does not indicate that the Tenant is entitled
to free parking and sets out
the terms and conditions required for parking
within the residential complex. The lease requires that all residents
register their vehicle with the Landlord and obtain a parking sticker or pass. The lease agreement was signed by the
Tenant and the prior Landlord on June 2, 2008.




 
5.   
The Landlord’s legal
representative advised that the residential complex consists of both
underground and aboveground parking lots. The
underground parking spots are numbered and assigned. The above ground
parking spots are not
numbered, but Tenants are still required to pay for a
parking space and register their vehicle with the Landlord.
 
6.   
The parties agree that
the Tenant has been parking in an outdoor parking spot on a daily, basis. The Landlord’s N5 notice
alleges that on or about May 11, 2021 the Tenants vehicle was parked in an outdoor parking
spot. The Landlord submitted into
evidence an incident report completed by the onsite superintendent confirming
the alleged incident on May 11, 2021. (LL
exhibit #2).
 
7.   
Since serving the N5
notice on May 28, 2021, the Landlord testified that the Tenant had continued to park his vehicle in the
aboveground parking lot each day from May 29
to June 4, 2021. The Tenant has also continued to park
aboveground parking lot each day since filing the L2 application.
 
Tenant’s evidence:
 
8.   
The Tenant
Suresh Vilameswaran provided
oral testimony on behalf of the Tenants.
The Tenants do not dispute the contents of the Landlord’s N5 notice or
that they continued to park in the outdoor parking spaces provided and thus,
did not void the N5 notice.
 
9.   
Mr. Vilameswaran agrees that the Tenants have not paid or registered for parking and that
their lease agreement is silent as the whether the Tenants have a
parking spot included in their
monthly rent.
 
10. Mr. Vilameswaran testified that the Tenants
have been parking their vehicles in the outdoor parking spots without paying
any charges or registering their vehicles since they moved into the rental unit
in 2008. The Tenant argues that the
old landlord never raised the issue of unauthorized
parking and that when he moved into the residential complex in 2008, he
was told that he was allowed to park one vehicle free of charge and would only
have to pay if the Tenants required a second parking spot.
 
11. The Tenant further argues that when the new Landlord acquired the residential
complex in 2018, they did not raise the issue of unauthorized parking until
January 2021.
 
12.
On cross examination, the Tenants agreed
that they have no written
authorization from either the prior or current Landlord
advising them that a parking
spot is included in their rent.
 
Analysis:
 
13.
Sections 18 and 64(1) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006, (the Act) state.
 
18. Covenants concerning things related to a rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located run with the land,
whether or not the things are in existence at the time the covenants are made.




 
64 (1) A landlord may give a tenant notice of termination of the tenancy if
the conduct of the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person
permitted in the residential complex by the tenant is such that it substantially interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex for
all usual purposes by the landlord or another tenant or substantially
interferes with another lawful right, privilege or interest of the landlord or
another tenant.
 
14. Based on the evidence before the Board, I
am satisfied that the Tenant does not have a parking space included in their
monthly rent. The lease agreement
submitted into evidence makes no reference to parking being included in the
monthly rent or that a parking space is free of
charge. Further, the Tenant was unable to provide any evidence
from the prior landlord confirming that one parking space is included.
The Tenant did not
summons any witnesses from the prior landlord to give testimony regarding any
verbal agreement that may have previously taken place.
 
15. Although I accept the Tenant’s argument
that the prior landlord did not enforce the landlord’s parking policy, I find that this alone is not sufficient to alter the lease agreement and terms signed by the
parties.
 
16. This is not a situation where the new
Landlord is attempting to alter the terms of the tenancy, but rather, enforce
the original agreement entered into by the parties. I find it would be unfair
to not allow the current
Landlord to enforce
their rights simply
because the prior landlord
neglected to do so.
 
17. As such, I am satisfied on a balance of
probabilities that the Tenant has substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord. The Tenant continuing to park in an
unauthorized manner interferes with the Landlord’s management of the residential complex
and is in violation of the parking
rules and regulations.
 
Relief from eviction:
 
18. The Landlord is not seeking
termination of tenancy,
but rather a conditional order requiring
the Tenant to comply with the Landlord’s parking rules and regulations.
 
19. The Landlord is also mindful
that the Tenant has resided
in the rental unit for over 10 years
and as such, is seeking only half of the $186.00 filing fee.
 
20. I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief
from eviction subject to the
condition(s) set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1)
of the Act.




 
 
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.   
On or before January
31, 2022 the Tenants
shall pay the required monthly
parking fee and provide the Landlord with all information
necessary to register their vehicle
 
2.   
If the Tenants do not comply
with paragraph 1 of the order,
then commencing February
1, 2022 the Tenants shall refrain
from parking their vehicle in the residential complex unless they have registered for a
parking space.
 
3.   
If the Tenants fails to
comply with paragraph 2 of this order,
the Landlord may, without
notice to the Tenant and within 30 days of the breach, apply to the Board
pursuant to section 78 of the Act for an order terminating the tenancy and
evicting the Tenant
 
4.   
The Tenants
shall also pay to
the Landlord $93.00
which represents half of the Landlord’s
application filing fee on or before January 17, 2022.
 
5.   
If the Tenants do not pay the Landlord
the full amount
in accordance with paragraph
4, the Tenants will start to owe
interest. This will be simple interest calculated from January 18,2022 at 2.00%
annually on the balance outstanding.
 
 
 
 
January 6, 2022                                                                                                                                                    Date Issued                                                                      Fabio Quattrociocchi
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin
Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

