Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-28
File number:	
SWL-51131-21

Citation:	2692140 Ontario Inc. v Liwa, 2022 CanLII 128516 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jv55n>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 



 


Order under
Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act,
2006


 




 


File Number: SWL-51131-21




 
In the matter
of:


 
ROOM #1, 663
MARENTETTE AVENUE WINDSOR
  ON N9A1Z3


 




Between:


2692140 Ontario Inc.


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Agili Fakiri Liwa


Tenant



 
 
 
2692140 Ontario Inc. (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict Agili Fakiri Liwa (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant,
another occupant of the rental unit or
someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully or
negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The Landlord has also applied
for an order requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlord for the damage.
The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the
unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on November 29, 2021. The
Landlord's Legal Representative, M. Bradley, the Landlord’s Agents, Paul Klinic
(‘PK’) and Pujitha Pripuramei (‘PP’), and the Tenant attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
This application
is brought pursuant to a second N5 notice of termination given to the Tenant
within 6 months. The second N5 alleges that Tenant substantially interfered
with other tenants’ or the Landlord’s reasonable enjoyment, lawful rights,
privilege or interests by knocking on doors of the other tenants and
threatening other tenants on April 27-29, 2021. The second N5 also alleges that
the Tenant was given a first N5 for damage to a window caused by the Tenant and
guest resulting from a physical altercation between them. The claims $550.00
which represents the estimated costs to repair the broken window.
 
2.    
On any
application before the Board, the person who alleges any particular incident or
event occurred has the burden of leading sufficient evidence to establish that
it is more likely than not that their version of events is true. In this case
that burden falls on the Landlord. For the reasons below, I find that the Landlord has led insufficient
evidence to




 
establish the allegations in the second N5 notice of termination upon which this application is based.
 
3.    
With regards to
knocking on other tenants’ doors and threatening them, the Tenant admits that he did knock on the door of
the tenant in “unit 7”. However, the Tenant explains that he did this because
there were people coming to the rental complex knocking on his window at late
hours of the night looking for the tenant in “unit 7”. This created noise
disturbances for the Tenant. The Tenant explains that he knocked on the
tenant’s door to get him to stop his guests from causing the noise. He denies knocking on other tenants’ doors or threatening
them. The Tenant’s testimony was not
contradicted by the Landlord. While PP testified that she received a lot of
complaints from other tenants about the Tenant’s behaviour and threats, PP did
not personally witness the Tenant’s behaviour. The Landlord did not call any of
the alleged complainants to testify or give evidence at the hearing. Therefore,
I give PP’s testimony less weight as compared to the Tenant’s evidence.
Accordingly, the Landlord failed to prove on a balance of probabilities that
the Tenant was going around knocking on tenants’ doors and threatening them.
 
4.    
Similarly, the
Landlord failed to adduce sufficient evidence to satisfy me on a balance of
probabilities that the Tenant or a person whom the Tenant permitted into the
residential complex wilfully or negligently caused damage to the window. While
PP testified that she received a phone call from the police informing her that
the Tenant and his guest got into a fight and his guest broke the window, the
Tenant’s uncontradicted testimony is that the person who broke the window was
not his guest. Rather, the person attended the residential complex to meet with
another tenant in “unit 4”. When the Tenant asked the person to leave because
he was drunk, the person broke the window. The Tenant called the police who attended
the scene. Again, PP was not witness to this incident. Her evidence is based on
what the police told her. The Landlord did not call the attending officers as
witnesses. Therefore, I am not satisfied on the evidence before me that damage
to the window was caused by the Tenant or his guest.
 
5.    
Since the
Landlord failed to adduce sufficient evidence to prove the allegations in the
second N5 notice of termination, the Landlord’s application must be dismissed.
 
6.    
My decision in
the Tenant’s favour should not be misunderstood as protection for the Tenant
from the consequences of any future breaches of the Act, including the
consequences of eviction. Had the
Landlord adduced sufficient evidence
in this case, this may have resulted in a very different outcome.
 
7.    
This order
contains all of the reasons for the decision within it and no further reasons
will be issued.
 
It is ordered that:




 
1.    
The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
 
 
February 28, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Khalid Akram
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite
400, 4th Floor London ON N6A5N6
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

