Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-31
File number:	
SWL-46236-20

Citation:	Crystal Lake Mobile Homes Court Limited v Brown, 2022 CanLII 82047 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrv2f>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-46236-20
 
 
In the
matter of:      191 CEDAR STREET,
4076 ROAD 125, R.R. 5, CRYSTAL LAKE, STRATFORD ON N5A6S6
 
Between:                  Crystal Lake Mobile Homes
Court Limited                                               Landlord
 
 
and
 
Karen Brown                                                                                                                    Tenant
 
 
 
Crystal Lake
Mobile Homes Court Limited (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict Karen Brown (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential
complex has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful
right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant. The Landlord
also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after
the termination date.
 
This application
was heard by videoconference on November 22, 2021. The Landlord's Legal
Representative, Stephanie Lauersen, the Landlord’s maintenance manager, Kevin
Flemming (‘KF’), the Tenant and the Tenant’s witness, Victor Smith (‘VS’),
attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     This application is based on an N5 notice alleging
that the Tenant installed a fire pit and a
large crushed stone patio area over top of the drainage lines that run
underground through the park lot. This is in violation of the lease agreement
and interfering with the infrastructure of the park’s infrastructure and the
proper functioning of the septic system.
 
2.     The Tenant does not deny installing a fire pit and an 8x8 patio
area made up of “sand
and very fine layer of pea stones”. The Tenant argues that she obtained
permission from KF prior to installing the items.
 
3.     The lease agreement between the parties requires the
Tenant to “obtain prior written approval before installing any buildings,
fixtures, garden plots, trees, fences, shrubs, or other structures on the
Rental Unit.” The Tenant did not obtain prior written approval from the
Landlord.
 
4.     The Tenant submitted a letter from Klomp’s Landscaping
Inc. (‘Klomps’), dated May 15, 2020, stating that it was explained to KF that Klomps would be “digging
out “6-8” of soil




 
and putting in 6-8” of compacted stone dust as the base for the entire firepit
area. The Tenant also
testified that she emailed a copy of the landscaping plans to the Landlord.
 
5.     KF confirmed that he gave verbal permission to the
Tenant to only install the fire pit and place the armoured stone on each side
of the fire pit. However, KF denies giving permission for the Tenant to install
the “pea stones”. KF also denies receiving Landscaping plans from the Tenant.
 
6.     On any application before the Board, the person who
alleges any particular incident or event occurred has the burden of leading
sufficient evidence to establish that it is more likely than not that their
version of events is true. In this case, the Tenant has the burden to prove
that she received permission to install the items.
 
7.    
For the reasons below, I find that
it is more likely than not that the Tenant did not have permission to install
the “pea stones”. First, the letter from Klomps is hearsay. It is an out of
court statement adduced for the truth of its contents without the opportunity
to cross- examine the author of the statement. The author of the Klomps letter
was not present to testify at the hearing. Therefore, I give the Klomps letter
no weight. Second, I also give little weight to the Tenant’s testimony that she
sent the Landlord an email of the Landscaping plans. The Tenant failed to
produce a copy of the email. Additionally, the Tenant confirmed on
cross-examination that she was told to remove the “pea stones” on the day they
were installed. This tends to support the Landlord’s position that they did not
consent to the “pea stone” being installed.
 
Interference with septic system
 
8.    
It was undisputed that the weeping
bed is in the Tenant’s backyard. The weeping bed is the area above the
underground septic system that is responsible for absorbing moisture from the
septic system. It was also undisputed that the Tenant installed the “pea
stones” on top of the weeping bed.
 
9.     I find that installing the “pea stones” over top of
the Weeping bed interferes with the proper absorption and flow of the liquid
from the septic system into the surrounding ground. I say this because soil
absorbs more moisture than stone. It follows that by replacing the soil on top
of the weeping bed with the “pea stones” would interfere with its absorption
function and the overall functioning of the septic system.
 
10.  This substantially interferes with other tenant’s
reasonable enjoyment of the rental complex and the Landlord’s obligations under
sections 20 and 161 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).
 
Section 83
 
11.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances
in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief from eviction
subject to the condition(s) set out
in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1) of the Act.




 
12.  The Landlord seeks a conditional order for the Tenant
to remove the “pea stones” and install topsoil and sod in its place within 2
weeks from the date of this order. Although the Tenant testified she doesn’t
have the money to remove the
pea stones, I find that it would not be unfair to issue a
conditional order but give the Tenant until April 30, 2022 rectify the problem. The Tenant has been at the
rental unit for 11 years. An extension would allow the Tenant time to obtain
funds required to do the work. Additionally, it is currently winter and
landscaping services may not be available until the spring.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.   
The Landlord’s application for eviction of the Tenant
is denied on the condition
that:
 
a)     The Tenant shall remove the “pea stones” from the 8x8
patio area and replace the area with topsoil and sod.
 
b)    
The Tenant shall complete
the work no later than April 30, 2022.
 
2.   
If the Tenant fails to
comply with the conditions set out in paragraph 1 above, then, within
30 days of the
breach, the Landlord may apply under section 78 of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the
Tenant. The Landlord must make the application
within 30 days of a breach of a condition set out in paragraph 1 of this
order.
 
 
 
 
January 31, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Khalid Akram
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81
of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires on August 12, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

