Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-03
File number:	
SWL-52948-21

Citation:	Sauve v Chauvin, 2022 CanLII 97395 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsjgr>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-52948-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


94 STOWE STREET
SOUTH WOODSLEE ON
  N0R1V0


 




Between:


John Sauve


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Justin Chauvin Nicole Chauvin


Tenants



 
 
 
John Sauve (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Nicole
Chauvin and Justin Chauvin (the
'Tenants') because the Landlord
requires possession of the rental
unit for the purpose of
residential occupation.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on January 10, 2022. The Landlord, the Landlord’s
legal representative, R. Lammers, the Tenant, N. Chauvin, and the Tenants’
legal representative,
C. Hall, attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Landlord served an N12 Notice
of Termination (the ‘Notice’) on the Tenants on July 13, 2021. The Notice had a
termination date of September 19, 2021 and it sought termination for the
Landlord’s child’s own use.
 
2.    
It was undisputed that Landlord
purchased the unit under the title, Never Rest Farms Ltd. Further, the Landlord
at the beginning of the tenancy was Never Rest Farms Ltd. On July 13, 2021,
title of the unit transferred from Never Rest Farms Ltd. to John Sauve.
 
3.    
The Tenants submitted that the unit was fraudulently conveyed from Never Rest Farms Ltd.
to John Sauve. Specifically, the Landlord transferred title to this unit from Never Rest Farms
Ltd. for an amount less than full consideration. As the unit was fraudulently
conveyed, the tenancy is being terminated in bad faith.
 
4.    
The Landlord’s evidence was that
he initially served the Notice under Never Rest Farms Ltd. on or about March 17, 2021. However,
when he received counsel and was made aware
that to serve this Notice pursuant to section 48 of the Act, the Landlord
needed to be an individual, he transferred title of the unit into his name.




 
Law and
Analysis
 
5.    
While I will not engage in an
analysis as to whether the unit was fraudulently conveyed, I find that the true Landlord is Never Rest Farms Ltd., and therefore, does not have standing
to terminate the tenancy. The Notice was served pursuant
to section 48 of the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) which states, in part:
 
48 (1) A landlord
may, by notice, terminate a tenancy if the landlord
in good faith requires
possession of the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation for a
period of at least one year by,
(a)               
the landlord;
(b)               
the landlord’s spouse;
(c)                 
a
child or parent
of the landlord or the landlord’s spouse;
or
(d)                 
a person who provides or will
provide care services to the landlord, the landlord’s spouse, or a child or
parent of the landlord or the landlord’s spouse, if the person receiving the
care services resides or will reside in the building, related group of
buildings, mobile home park or land lease community in which the rental unit is
located.
 
(2) The date for termination specified in the
notice shall be at least 60 days after the notice is given and shall be the day
a period of the tenancy ends or, where the tenancy is for a fixed term, the end
of the term
 
6.     Subsection 48 (5) of the Act states:
 
(a)    
This section does not authorize a landlord to give a notice of termination of a
tenancy with respect to a rental unit unless,
(a)               
the rental unit is owned in whole or in part by an individual; and
(b)               
the landlord is an individual [emphasis added]
 
7.    
Therefore, pursuant to subsection
48(5)(b), only a landlord which is an individual is authorized to serve a
tenant with an N12 Notice of Termination on the ground that the landlord in
good faith requires possession of the rental unit for the purpose of
residential occupation.
 
8.     Section 202 of the Act
states:
 
202 (1)
In making findings
on an application, the Board shall ascertain
the real substance of all transactions and
activities relating to a residential complex or a rental unit and the good
faith of the participants and in doing so,
(a)      
may disregard the outward
form of a transaction or the separate
corporate existence of
participants; and
(b)      
may have regard to the pattern
of activities relating
to the residential complex or the
rental unit
 
9.    
In this instance, I find that
while the Landlord was an individual at the time the Notice
was served, pursuant to section 202 of the Act, the true Landlord is a
corporation. The real substance of the transfer was to evade the Act’s
prohibition on corporate Landlord’s serving
N12s under section 48(5). It was undisputed that Never Rest Farms Ltd. was the Landlord




 
at the start
of the tenancy. It was the Landlord’s own evidence that he transferred title to
his name to meet the requirements of section 48 of the Act. I recognize that
the definition of “landlord” in section 2(1) of the Act includes an owner of a
rental unit. However, John Sauve acquired his ownership in the rental unit from
a corporation that he alone controls for the sole purpose of being able to evict
the Tenants. This interpretation is consistent with the
intent of section
48(5) of the Act, which is to deny corporate Landlord’s the right
to evict Tenant’s for
Landlord’s own use applications.
 
10.  As I have found that Never Rest Farms Ltd., a
corporation, is the true Landlord, the N12 Notice of Termination served
on July 13, 2021 does
not comply with section 48 of the Act.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.   
The Landlord’s Application is dismissed.
 
February 3, 2022 Date Issued
Camille Tancioco
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81
of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires on August 15, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

