Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-13
File number:	
SWL-53543-21-RV

Citation:	Wei v  Alganahi, 2022 CanLII 61491 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jqg66>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
21.2 of the
Statutory Powers Procedure Act
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-53543-21-RV
 
 



In the matter
of:


358 HOMESTEAD COURT LONDON ON N6G2E9


 




Between:


Yun Wei


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Ibrahim
Alganahi Saif Alganahi


Tenants



 
 
Review Order
 
Yun Wei (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Saif Alganahi and Ibrahim Alganahi (the 'Tenants')
because the Tenants did not pay the rent that the Tenants owe. This application
was resolved by order SWL-53543-21 issued on November 30, 2021.
 
On January 12, 2022, Tenants
requested a review of the order and a stay pending review. A preliminary review of the
review request was completed without a hearing.
Reasons:
 
1.   
The request
for review claims
both that the Tenants were not reasonably able to participate
in the hearing and that the Board’s order contains a serious error.
 
2.   
Although the ground of
not reasonably able to participate is often invoked when the affected tenant(s)
do not attend the hearing, the Tenants attended the hearing with counsel. As such, I take the Tenants’ assertion that they were not reasonably able to participate
as being that they were denied procedural fairness or natural justice.
 
3.   
The Tenants in
substance assert that they were denied procedural fairness or natural justice
because they were not fully able to represent themselves during the hearing due
to maintenance issues that rendered the rental unit uninhabitable, because
their legal representative died and their new representative was retained just
prior to the hearing and because the Landlord
breached Rule 19 (Disclosure and Evidence) of the Board’s
Rules of Procedure. These
assertions are read in context, namely that the Tenants requested an
adjournment and the hearing Member denied the adjournment request.




 
4.   
The decision to permit
or deny an adjournment is a discretionary power which is usually accorded
deference. Generally, such a decision will only be problematic if the hearing
Member exercised its discretion in an unreasonable or non-judicious fashion. According
to Board Interpretation Guideline 8, Review of an Order, the Board will
not exercise its discretion review discretionary decisions where the result is within the range of reasonable,
acceptable outcomes. After reviewing the hearing recording, the record and the
hearing order, my conclusion is that there is no basis for the assertion that
the Member may have caused any procedural unfairness by denying the adjournment
request.
 
5.   
With respect
to the hearing Member’s refusal
to adjourn because
of the recent retainer of counsel, the Member addressed
this issue and concluded that the Tenants
had sufficient time to seek legal advice given
the date of issuance of the notice
of hearing. The hearing
recording reveals that in reaching this conclusion the Member also considered
the
Tenants’
diligence in retaining counsel, the Tenants’ inability to provide information
about their previous counsel such as that counsel’s full name, the relative complexity
of the issues on the L1 Application (the quantum of the arrears, if any, and
whether relief from eviction should be granted under subsection 83(1) of the
Act), the lack of disagreement about the quantum
of arrears and the prejudice
to the Landlord given the Tenants’ decision to withhold the rent. In my
view, the Board considered the relevant factors. Particularly in circumstances
where the Tenants did not dispute the arrears outstanding and were aware of the
issues in dispute there is in my view no basis for the assertion that the
hearing Member’s refusal to adjourn may have denied the Tenants’ procedural
fairness or natural justice.
 
6.   
 There
is no basis for the claim that the hearing Member may have erred in failing to
adjourn the proceedings because the rental unit was uninhabitable. This issue was not put to the Member and the Member cannot be
faulted for failing to consider an issue that was not put before her. That
being said, a review of the hearing recording reveals that primary reason for
requesting the adjournment was so that the Tenants could file a T6 application
and raise maintenance issues. However,
Board Interpretation Guideline
1, Adjourning and
Rescheduling Hearings, states, in part: “The Board does not generally grant
an adjournment on the ground that the respondent intends to file an application
against the applicant.” In these circumstances, it cannot be said that the
Member’s decision falls outside the range of reasonable, acceptable outcomes or
that the denial of the adjournment on this basis may have denied the Tenants
procedural fairness or natural justice.
 
7.   
With respect to the
alleged breach of Rule 19 of the Board’s Rules of Procedure, Rule 1.6 provides
the Board with the authority to waive or vary Rule 19. Rule 19.4 of the Board’s
Rules required the Landlord to provide the Tenants and the Board with a copy of
all documents, pictures or other evidence that the Landlord intended to rely
upon at least 7- days prior to the hearing. Section 191(3) of the Act provides
that a notice or document given by mail shall be deemed to have been given on the fifth day after mailing.
According to Rule 3.9, disclosure served by courier
is considered served on the day after it was given
to the courier, or if that day is a holiday, the next day that is not a
holiday.
 
8.   
The hearing
in this case was held on November
18, 2021. The hearing Member found that the Landlord sent the disclosure to
the Tenants by mail on November 4, 2021 and by




 
courier on November 8, 2021. Either
way, service of the documents was adequate if the
hearing Member’s finding stands. The Tenants’ request for review makes the same
argument and provides the same evidence as was considered by the hearing
Member. The review request
itself does not articulate or provide any evidence that would suggest that the hearing Member’s finding
was unreasonable. As such, I cannot find that the Member’s failure to adjourn
for this reason may have denied the Tenants procedural
fairness or natural justice. Further, even if the Landlord
had not strictly complied
with Rule 19, the Tenants did
not dispute the amount of rent owing and admitted they were withholding the rent. In circumstances where the Tenants were aware of the material facts on issue it cannot be said that the
Member’s failure to adjourn may have denied the Tenants procedural fairness or
natural justice.
 
9.   
The Tenants also claim
that the N4 Notice of Termination was void which, if true, would mean that the Board seriously erred by terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenants
without jurisdiction to do so. The basis for the assertion that the N4 is problematic is that the first page of the
tenancy agreement names Saif Alganahi and Ibrahim Alganahi and five other individuals as tenants. The Tenants argue that the other named individuals are tenants and that the N4 names only
Saif Alganahi and Ibrahim Alganahi.
 
10. The hearing Member considered this issue
and addressed it in the order. After reviewing the hearing recording, it is
clear that both parties agreed that only Saif Alganahi and Ibrahim Slganahi
signed the tenancy
agreement and that some of the persons
specified on the first page of
the tenancy agreement were children. The hearing order makes clear that the
Member found that the only tenant parties to this agreement were the Tenants named
above because they were the only persons
that signed the tenancy agreement. It is implicit in the Member’s reasoning that
should found that the N4 Notice of Termination was not void and that the Board
had the requisite jurisdiction to terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenants
if warranted.
 
11. The review request makes the same argument
and provides the same evidence as was considered by the hearing
Member. The review
request itself does not articulate or provide any
evidence that would suggest that the hearing Member’s finding was unreasonable.
In the absence of same, there is no basis for me to conclude that the Member
may have erred in finding that the N4 was not void.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The request
to review order SWL-53543-21 issued on
November 30, 2021 is denied.
The order is confirmed and remains unchanged.
 
 




January 13, 2022 Date Issued
South West-RO
150 Dufferin
Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor London ON N6A5N6



 
 
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

