Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-07
File number:	
SWL-50935-21

Citation:	Brunato v Penner, 2022 CanLII 51466 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpsmm>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWL-50935-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


636 HIGHWAY 77 LEAMINGTON ON N8H3V8


 




Between:


Peter Brunato


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Jacob Penner


Tenant



 
 
 
Peter Brunato
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Jacob
Penner (the 'Tenants') because they, another occupant of the rental unit or
someone they permitted in the residential complex have wilfully or negligently
caused undue damage to the premises. The Landlord
has also applied
for an order requiring the Tenants to compensate the Landlord for the damage.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on August 30, 2021. The Landlord and the
Tenant attended and the Tenant was represented by Heinrich Penner
 
Flora McNeil
(Realtor) and Mackenzie
Brunato (property manager)
attended as a witness for the
Landlord.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The application is based on
a non voidable Notice of Termination (form “N5”) served on
the Tenant on April 21, 2021 with a termination date of May 5, 2021 because the Tenant
has substantially interfered with the lawful rights, privileges or interests of
the Landlord because the Tenant has failed to maintain the residential property
and caused financial harm to the Landlord as a result of a municipal work order
to clean up the property and by accumulating further
debris on the property. The notice was served pursuant
to s. 68 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’). The Landlord is also seeking
$3,000.00 in damages for the cost of cleaning
up the property.
 
2.    
The rental unit is a
single-family home, at least 100 years old, situated on a lot in an
agricultural setting, and is surrounded by 8 ½ acres of soy beans. The
property, and surrounding acreage was purchased on October 1, 2020 by the current
owner and the Tenant has been in residence for
approximately 15 years.
 
3.    
The application was preceded by a first N5 notice of termination deemed served on April
15, 2020 with a termination date of November 4, 2020.




 
 
 
4.    
The allegations set out in the first N5 indicate
a yard filled with automotive parts, debris, hoses,
knives, broken furniture, and old tractors. The
Landlord believes the Tenant is running a commercial business and is buying and
selling vehicle parts and doing automotive repairs.    The Landlord sought to
have the debris cleaned up.
 
5.    
The Tenant did not void the first N5 notice, however
the Landlord did not file an
application for eviction.
 
6.    
On April 21, 2021, the
Landlord served a nonvoidable N5 notice to the Tenant with a termination date of May 5, 2021 because “there
was a continuous stream of vehicles
entering and exiting the property
as well as new abundance of garbage, steel, broken
down equipment, oil drums” and because the Landlord had been
served with a Work Order by the municipality of Leamington for
failing to comply with the Land Maintenance By-law.
 
7.    
The Landlord provided
no evidence as to how the coming and going of vehicles was causing substantial
interference with his lawful rights, privileges or interests and/or enjoyment of the rental
complex. In the absence of any evidence
I find that the vehicle traffic does not rise to the
level of substantial interference.
 
8.    
The Landlord
gave evidence that property is littered with debris and has been since they purchased the property, with as many
as 150 to 200 tires. He suggested the
Tenant is using the property as a commercial business. The Landlord is concerned about the leakage of oil and other
mechanical liquids seeping into the ground. A
Work Order was issued by issued April 1, 2021, and instructs the owner
(Landlord) to clean up and maintain the property within three weeks or the
municipality will complete the work and charge the cost back to the Landlord,
and charge a fee of $200.00 to conduct “re- inspections” of the property. A copy of the Work Order was provided to
the Board. Under cross examination, the Landlord testified he was last at the
property ten days before the hearing, and that many items had been “moved
around” and there was still “lots of stuff.”
 
9.    
Ms. Brunato
gave sworn testimony that she is the property
manager. She confirmed the purchase date of the property. She personally served all notices to the Tenant. She described the property as “messy and
gross” and has garbage and rubbish
everywhere. Ms Brunato advised she took the photographs “before the snow fell’
but after the purchase of the property. She
tendered into evidence several photos of the property. The photos
depict a yard containing old vehicles, tires,
wheel rims, old furniture, wooden pallets, plastic containers,
hoses, a port-a-pottie and other debris, encroaching on the farmland. She took the photos well before the Work
Order was issued. On cross
examination Ms. Brunato suggested the actual number of tires was 40-50.
 
10.  Ms. McNeil gave evidence that she is a
Realtor. She had been to the property
several times and described it as atrocious, disgusting, unhealthy and
unacceptable. She described the
property as looking like a junk yard. She
described old lawn mowers, tractors and vehicles
in various states
of disassembly. She stated that there were 40-50




 
tires strewn
about and covered
by wooden pallets.
Access to the farmland was blocked
by a derelict vehicle.
 
11. 
The Tenant then
provided his testimony. He admitted
to having tires, and to performing maintenance
on his tractors. He testified
there are only two tractors on the
property and are in working order.
The derelict vehicles
are no longer on the property and all the tires
have been removed.
 
12.  The Tenant’s Representative then attempted
to enter several photographs. The
Landlord objected because they were not submitted in advance of the hearing. The Landlord advised he only received the
photos on the date of hearing. I
confirmed the Board only received the photographs on the date of hearing. As a result of failing to submit the photos in advance of the hearing,
the presentation of the photos
was denied.
 
13.  Instead, the Tenant used the Landlord’s
photos. He described that there are
no tires or rims stacked next to the barn. The
vehicles, other tires, derelict vehicles, palettes trailers, hoses and furniture
have all been removed. The Tenant disputes
the Landlord’s evidence that
he ever changed oil for vehicles. He
testified that he has two working tractors on the property, and has removed the
old vehicles, tires and other debris.
 
14.  Although it appears the Tenant has
completed some of the work to clean up the yard, I am satisfied that at the time the second N5 was served on the Tenant the work had not been completed, and that his actions
caused a substantial interference with the lawful right, privileges and interests of the Landlord because
the Landlord was issued a Work Order by the City of Leamington on
April 1, 2021, for failing to comply with the Land Maintenance By-Law.
 
15.  The Landlord has also made a claim
of that he will incur costs of $3,000.00 to repair the damage to the rental complex pursuant
to s. 89 of the Act. His claim is
based on his personal experience of cleaning up other properties. This does not include the cost to
remediate the soil.
 
16.  Clean up is not
damage. The wording of s. 62 of the Act is quite
specific:
 
62(1) A landlord may give a tenant notice of termination of if the
Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person whom the tenant permits
in the residential complex wilfully or negligently causes undue damage
to the rental unit or the residential complex.
 
17.  The need to clean up after a tenancy is terminated is not damage wilfully or negligently
caused by the Tenant as defined by the Act. The
Landlord may choose to pursue the cost of the clean up in another court of
competent jurisdiction.
 
18.  The Tenant is described as a single 52 year-old
man, who is of limited
needs and is unemployed. He sells scrap (metal) for cash. As previously noted, the Tenant has resided on the property for
some 15 years. The monthly rent is
$300.00.




 
19.  I have considered all of the disclosed
circumstances, including the Tenant’s efforts to clean up the property,
in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and
find that it would not be unfair to grant relief from eviction pursuant to
subsection 83(1) of the Act.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.   
The Landlord’s
application for eviction is denied on condition that the Tenant clean the
property so that it complies with the Work Order issued by the City of
Leamington issued on or about April 1, 2021. The Tenant shall
maintain the property
in a state of cleanliness and free of debris such that
it complies with the Land Maintenance By-Law for the Municipality of Leamington
for a period of twelve months from the date of issue of this order.
 
2.   
The Landlord shall have
the property re-inspected by the Municipality of Leamington on or before April 1, 2022, and the cost of the re-inspection shall be paid by the Tenant within
14 days of the inspection.
 
3.   
If the Tenant fails to comply
with the conditions set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this order
then the Landlord may apply under section 78 of the Act for an order
terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenant. The Landlord must make
the application within 30 days of a breach of the conditions set out in
paragraphs 1 and 2 of this order.
 
4.   
The Tenants
shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing the application.
 
5.   








 
 
King




 


If the Tenant does not the Landlord the
full amount owing on or before January 18, 2022, they will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from January
19, 2022 at 2.00% annually on
the balance outstanding.
 
 
January 7, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Dawn
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin
Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

