Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-03
File number:	
SWL-46356-20-RV

Citation:	Kittelberger v Havell, 2022 CanLII 97469 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsjgk>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 21.2 of the
Statutory Powers
Procedure Act
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number:
SWL-46356-20-RV
 
 



In the matter
of:


UPPER, 88 GLADSTONE AVENUE ST. THOMAS ON N5R2M1


 




Between:


John Kittelberger


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Lorri Havell


Tenant



 
 
 
Review Order
 
John Kittelberger (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Lorri
Havell (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully
caused undue damage to the premises; and because the Tenant, another occupant
of the rental unit or a person the Tenant permitted in the residential complex
has seriously impaired
the safety of any person.
The Landlord has also applied for an order requiring the Tenant
to compensate the Landlord for the damage.
 
This application was resolved by order SWL-46356-20 issued on July 2, 2021. On July 13, 2021, the Tenant
requested a review of the order.
The Tenant’s request to review
was granted and the application ordered to be heard de novo by order
SWL-46356-20-RV-IN1 issued on October 21, 2021.
 
This application was heard de
novo via videoconference on January 10, 2022. The Landlord, the Landlord’s legal representative, S. Pereira, the Tenant, and the Tenant’s
legal representative, N. Evans, attended the hearing. The
Landlord’s witnesses, A. Tedall and J. Sawkins also attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Landlord served an N7 Notice
of Termination (the ‘Notice’) on the Tenant
on October 8, 2020. The
termination date on the Notice was October 18, 2020.
 
2.    
The Notice alleges that the Tenant
pulled a tap from a pipe in the unit and failed
to inform the Landlord,
removed batteries from smoke detectors and CO2 detectors, flooded the




 
lower level tenants’ unit and
the Tenant’s guests broke into the lower
tenants’ unit and peered into their window.
 
3.     On a balance of probabilities, I find that the Tenant
seriously impaired the safety of other tenants in the residential complex
by the floods on November 2, 2019 and September 13, 2020.
 
4.     I find that the Tenant caused the flood on November 2,
2019 by pulling a tap off the wall and caused a flood in the unit below. A.
Tedall, a downstairs tenant, testified that on this date she woke up to water
pouring through her ceiling in the kitchen and spare room. J. Sawkins, the other downstairs tenant, testified that he awoke to the water pouring
in like a fire hydrant. As soon as he saw the water, he informed the
Landlord. The Tenant took no reasonable steps to inform the Landlord and/or
prevent damage. A. Tedall testified being concerned about an electrical fire as
the water was pouring through the light fixture. A photograph of the light
fixture was submitted into evidence.
 
5.    
I find that the Tenant caused the
flood on September 13, 2020 based on the correspondence of Cam Stacey, a
licensed plumber. The correspondence explores the cause of the flood. He states
that “there was large evidence that water had been leaking from the unit
upstairs.” He found that the water lines and drains for the kitchen above the
water damage were both dry and had no signs of leaking that day or in the past.
The plumber found some water on the kitchen countertop. He further states:
 
In my professional opinion I believe the water
could have been left on or not shut off all the way and left dripping at the kitchen tap either pushed to the side so the spout of the tap was dripping onto the countertop,
or the sink was plugged or left full of dishes
with the drain plugged. Causing
the sink to overflow and follow the countertop
down behind the stove to the lower unit and into the basement.
 
6.     While the Tenant submitted that she did not leave her
sink plugged, filled with dishes and
she did not note any leaking on September 13, 2020, she testified that the area behind the stove is “always wet” and the Landlord
was aware of this since she moved in. J. Sawkins testified that on September 13, 2020 he saw that the ceiling
in the bedroom was collapsing and water was pouring in. He
went to the Tenant’s unit to inform her to which she replied, “I know.” In my
view, the Tenant was aware of a water leak but failed to report it to the
Landlord. Submitted into evidence was photographs of the sunken ceiling.
 
7.     Both incidents seriously
impaired safety as the evidence
of the downstairs tenants and the
Landlord was that they presented concerns of an electrical fire and collapsed ceiling in the lower tenants’ bedroom.
 
8.     While I find that the Tenant negligently caused the floods,
the Tenant did not wilfully
cause damage. There was insufficient evidence to suggest the Tenant
intended to cause the flooding and the subsequent damage to the lower tenants.
As such, the Landlord’s claim for wilful damage is dismissed.
 
9.     I do not find that the remaining issues in the N7
notice constitute serious impairments of safety. The Landlord did not lead sufficient evidence
that the individual alleged to have




 
broken into
the lower tenants’ unit and peered into their unit was invited by the Tenant.
Further, I do not find that the Tenant removing batteries from smoke detectors
and CO2 detectors seriously impaired safety as I am satisfied by her testimony that she only removed
them in advance of the Landlord’s inspection, so it was more convenient
for him.
 
DAMAGES
 
10.  The Landlord’s application sought compensation for damages in the amount
of $7.146.65, representing repairs
for the water damage. I am satisfied
that the damage
was negligently caused, as
discussed above. The Landlord submitted into evidence a quote from Shawn Home
Improvements for this amount. The Landlord submitted that he paid $1,000.00 for
the deductible and insurance covered the remainder of the cost. The Landlord
was therefore seeking $1,000.00.
 
11.  The Tenant submitted that the Landlord should not be
entitled to any amount because he gave misleading evidence regarding the amount
claimed in his application.
 
12.  I find that the Landlord
is entitled to $1,000.00. I am satisfied
that the cost of the deductible
was incurred to pay for the damage to the residential complex
caused by the Tenant.
I am satisfied that at the time the
Landlord filed this application, he based the amount on the quote from Shawn Home Improvements prior to his
insurance claim and he did not
intend to mislead.
 
SECTION 83 CONSIDERATIONS
 
13.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances
in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to postpone the eviction until
February 28, 2022 pursuant to subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act.
 
14.  The Landlord submitted that the Tenant had broken a
window and put cardboard in its place, changed the locks to the unit, removed
the dryer vent, and scratched the kitchen countertops. J. Sawkins and A. Tedall testified
that there is a new leak immediately above the stove after the Landlord just repaired the ceiling.
Further, on November 4, 2021, he was awoken by excessive noise at 2:00 am. The
fire department has attended approximately three times
for the Tenant burning items in the backyard. J. Sawkins and A.
Tedall testified to having their sleep disturbed by the Tenant and are worried
that another flood will occur.
 
15.  The Tenant has resided in the unit for seven years and has a seven-year old child residing with her. The Tenant submitted
that some of the damage was from reasonable wear and tear, she ceased burning
fires after the fire department came, and she is not aware of any new leaks.
 
16.  The evidence suggests that that since the service of
the N7 notice, the impact of the Tenant, her guest or her occupant’s conduct on
the lower level tenants is such that the tenancy cannot continue. However, in
consideration of the length of the tenancy and her




 
child, I find it appropriate to postpone termination. This delayed termination will provide the Tenant with some time to organize her
move.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.    
Order SWL-46356-20 issued on July 2, 2021 is cancelled and replaced with the following:
 
2.     The tenancy between
the Landlord and the Tenant is terminated, as of February
28, 2022. The Tenant must move
out of the rental unit on or before February 28, 2022.
 
3.     The Tenant shall pay to the Landlord
$1,000.00, which represents the reasonable costs
of repairing the damage.
 
4.     If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord the full
amount owing on or before February 28, 2022, the Tenant will start to owe
interest. This will be simple
interest calculated from March 1, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
5.     If the unit is not vacated on or before February 28, 2022, then starting
March 1, 2022, the Landlord may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction
may be enforced.
 
6.     Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of the unit to the
Landlord on or after March 1, 2022. The Sheriff is requested to expedite the
enforcement of this order.
 
 
February
3, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Camille Tancioco
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction
expires on August 9, 2022 if the order
has not been filed on or before
this date with the
Court Enforcement Office
(Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.

