Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-04
File number:	
SWT-43902-20

Citation:	Wright v Krol, 2022 CanLII 52414 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jptwp>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 



 


Order under
Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act,
2006


 




 


File Number:
SWT-43902-20




 
In the matter
  of:


 
2,
  26 SCOTT STREET ST. THOMAS
ON N5P1K3


 




Between:


Shawn Wright


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Kelly and Mike
Krol


Landlord



 
 
 
Shawn Wright (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Kelly and Mike Krol (the 'Landlords')
harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the Tenant and
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant
or by a member of the Tenant's household.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 4, 2021.
 
The Tenant and the Landlords attended
the hearing. The Tenant spoke with Duty Counsel prior to
the start of the hearing. Roger Banman attended briefly and provided evidence
as a witness on behalf of the Landlords.
 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Issue
 
1.       
The Landlords acknowledged they
received evidence from the Tenant on July 5,
2020. They object to the Tenant
relying on this evidence as they assert
the Board directed
the Tenant could not rely on evidence he had submitted in a previous
application – SWT- 43255-20.
 
2.       
By Order dated June 10, 2020,
application SWT-43255-20 was dismissed as withdrawn.
That Order does not determine or provide any restrictions on the ability of the
Tenant to rely on evidence submitted in that application for the purpose of
future proceedings.
 
3.       
Therefore, I see nothing
that prevents the Tenant from re-sending and relying on documents that were originally served
with respect to SWT-43255-20.




 
T2 – Substantial Interference and Harassment
 
4.       
The Tenant’s application is for
harassment and substantial interference. It initially arose due to interactions
surrounding the Tenant’s girlfriend visiting and staying over at the rental unit following the start of COVID. The Tenant’s T2 Application was accompanied by a document titled “Tribunal Notes”
which provides further detail and which I accept as part of the application.
 
Background
 
5.       
The Landlords and Tenant
lived in the same building.
The Tenant’s rental unit was on the second floor of the residential
complex and was located above the unit where the Landlords reside. The Tenant
moved into the rental unit in July 2018.
 
6.       
The Landlords’ actions of which the Tenant complains can be broken into two broad
categories as follows:
a.     
The actions of the Landlords regarding
the Tenant’s ability
to have his girlfriend visit;
and
b.     
Inspections of the rental
unit after the Tenant no longer
lived there but before he had given up possession.
 
While not every specific
inspection is detailed on the Tenant’s application, the Tenant’s application
does allege ongoing harassment during the move and the Tenant’s disclosed
evidence contains details about the alleged entries. The Landlords did not
object to the Tenant providing evidence on later inspections of the rental unit
and responded to this evidence. As a result, I am satisfied it is appropriate to proceed with determination on these events.
I further find there is no
prejudice to the Landlords and it is fair and expeditious to do so.
 
7.       
While the Landlords alleged the
Tenant was the one who engaged in harassing behaviour, there was no
landlord’s application before
me and I make no determinations concerning any allegations the Landlords make against the Tenant. This is the Tenant’s
application regarding events that took place during the tenancy and my findings
are limited to the Tenant’s allegations.
 
8.       
I
heard and considered extensive evidence from the
hearing. I have focused my reasons
below on the most relevant evidence. As both Landlords testified, where relevant, I have
identified them as Landlord Kelly or Landlord Mike respectively.
 
Events Regarding
the Tenant’s Visitors
 
9.       
The parties agree there were a series of communications and notices from the Landlords to the Tenant as follows:
 
a.     
Landlord Kelly contacted the Tenant on April 2, 2020 and asked if his girlfriend was moving in.
b.     
On April 3, 2020, the Landlords
placed a handwritten note under the Tenant’s door asking Shawn not to bring his
girlfriend over as she was not resident in the rental




 
unit and they were trying to minimize risk. This note also stated
“Not trying to be
rude but following rule[s] of covid right now”.
c.     
On April 3, 2020, the Landlords admit they posted a
sign on the entrance to the residential complex that provided:
“COVID-19 NO ENTRY
TO VISITORS (white hand inside a stop sign) DON’T PUT
US AT RISK!
d.     
On April 14, 2020, the Landlords posted a notice:
“Posted-No visitors inside
so follow the rules!”
e.     
On April 17, 2020, another notice
was posted by the Landlords
stating: “Posted-No visitors
inside so follow the rules! Or buy your own house!”
f.       
On April 22, 2020, a notice was posted:
“Shawn-your out by June 21st Mays rent
has to be paid or leave sooner!”
 
10.    The parties provided
divergent testimony regarding in person interactions on April 3, and
10, 2020. The parties also each testified about a visit from the Landlords’
daughter on April 4, 2020. Given my ultimate finding below, I do not find it
necessary to consider the testimony surrounding the details of these
interactions.
 
11.   
On April 10, 2020, the parties
agree the Landlords served the Tenant with an N7. This was partly related
to the Tenant’s failure to comply with the prohibitions posted against
visitors. On April 22, 2020, the Landlords served the Tenant
with an N12 for Landlord’s own use based Landlord Mike’s
mother moving in.
 
12.    A landlord has a right to serve
a notice of termination in accordance with the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’). No applications were
before me based upon these notices. As a result, I make no determination about
the validity of these notices of evictions. However, based on Landlord Kelly’s
evidence, that a notice was served because of
the way the Tenant was
acting and that after this her mother-in-law said she
would move in, I find these notices were served, at least in part, out of the
concerns regarding the Tenant’s visitors and COVID.
 
13.   
The Landlords testified their
actions were motivated by their understanding of COVID, the Landlord Kelly’s vulnerable health
status, and governmental restrictions. However, outside of expressing their own understandings, the Landlords provided
no evidence they were required to take the steps they
did to prevent the Tenant’s girlfriend from attending the rental unit, or that there
were any government rules, by-laws or guidance stating that a tenant who lives
alone in a rental unit should not have someone visit or stay with them in their
rental unit because it increases the risk of other residents of the same
building getting COVID.
 
14.    A Tenant has the right to reasonable enjoyment of
their rental unit for all usual purposes by a tenant. I find that this
generally includes the right to have visitors attend. Where a landlord has
issues with a tenant’s behaviour or the behaviour of a visitor of theirs, they
have remedies available to them under the Act. Here the Landlords appeared
aware of this as they served the Tenant with an N7 which identified the failure
of the Tenant to prohibit visitors as one issue.
However, the Landlords did not follow through on this notice with an application and instead
applied improper pressure upon the Tenant to not have his girlfriend attend the
rental unit.




 
15.   
The parties agree the Tenant stayed
away from the rental unit for two days starting
April 11, 2020. The Tenant testified this was because he was not
comfortable staying in the rental unit due to the Landlords’ conduct.
 
16.    The parties disagree on whether the Tenant returned to
live at the rental unit after April 13, 2020. The Tenant testified
he did not stay or eat in the apartment
after April 11, 2020.
The Landlords testified the Tenant was sleeping and showering and living at the
rental unit during this time. On cross-examination the Tenant admitted he did
go in and out of the apartment to do different things but maintained he was not
living there and could not have been sleeping there at nights as he worked from
midnight to 8 a.m.
 
17.   
With respect to the notices after
April 11, 2020, the Tenant testified that even if he had wanted to go back to
the rental unit he couldn’t as the stress was continuous and affecting his
sleep. There was a shared hallway and he did not want to run into anyone. He
testified he immediately sought a new apartment when he received the Landlord’s
eviction notices. The Tenant took possession of a new one-bedroom apartment on
May 1, 2020, which was one and a half times the size of the rental unit. The
Tenant advised he started to sleep at his new apartment on an air mattress but did not move in any of his
furniture – this remained at the rental unit.
 
18.    I find that what the Landlords may have begun as an attempt to take measures
to protect their own health
and safety due to the COVID pandemic and a sincere concern, escalated such that
the Landlords’ conduct of serving notices of termination and their improper
pressure upon the Tenant not to have his girlfriend in the rental unit
substantially interfered with the Tenant’s rights to have guests and visitors
in his rental unit.
 
The Landlords’ Refusal to Terminate
the Tenancy
 
19.    As a result of the Landlords’ conduct, the Tenant
informed the Landlords he wished to give up the rental unit but the Landlords
refused to agree to terminate the tenancy insisting he had to provide 60 days’ notice.
The Tenant says he gave notice at the end of
May. He provided no explanation why he waited until the end of May
to give notice when he had
rented a new place May 1, 2020.
 
20.    The Landlords testified
they did not know when the Tenant was leaving
as he did not give them a date. This does not make
sense. While the Landlords may have been confused and frustrated by the
situation, and not known at the beginning of May the Tenant had entered into a
new lease, they were certainly aware by the end of June that the Tenant had
moved out his personal belongings.
 
21.   
The Tenant moved the majority of his belongings out of the rental unit on June 22, 2020, leaving behind a security camera and
router. The Landlords’ conducted a number of inspections of the rental unit after
this date in June and July. No allegations are made of illegal entry.
 
22.    The Tenant did object to the actions of the Landlords
on June 27, 2020, as they unplugged his security
camera and router.
No damage is alleged but his signal went out.




 
The Tenant also objects to
photos having been taken during these inspections without explanation. The Tenant filed a police
report as a result of the Landlords’ actions but this appears to have gone no further.
 
23.    The Tenant retrieved
his security camera
and router on July 1, 2020. He continued to pay
rental insurance and utilities. On July 1, 2020, the Landlords requested the
return of the keys or advised
they would call the police.
The Landlords also provided notice
they would be accessing the
rental unit between 1 p.m. to 8 p.m on July 1-4, 2020, to clean and conduct
repairs.
 
24.    The Landlords applied
the Tenant’s last month’s rent deposit to the month of July 2020.
 
25.   
At the hearing, the Landlords
demonstrated a lack of understanding regarding the Tenant’s rights. While they
appear to have attempted to get clarification, the fact is that whether a Tenant is residing
at another rental unit or has no belongings in a rental
unit is irrelevant. So long as
the tenant is in possession of the rental unit the landlord must respect the tenant’s rights, which includes
entering the rental
unit in accordance with the notice
provisions contained in section 27 in the Act.
 
26.    The Landlords testified they were not aware they could have agreed to early termination. Nonetheless, Landlord Kelly
also testified about a time she had ended another tenancy early. Ultimately,
even at the hearing the Landlords asked why the Tenant kept saying it was his
apartment when he had moved out yet they admitted they still applied the
Tenant’s last month’s rent deposit to July.
 
27.    I find the Landlords substantially interfered with the Tenant’s rights
during the tenancy
by interfering with the Tenant’s camera, requesting the Tenant return
the keys or else they would involve the police, and providing notice they would
conduct repairs over four days for seven hours a day. The tenancy was still
ongoing while these events occurred as evidenced by the fact the Tenant had not
returned the keys and the last month’s rent deposit was applied to the rent for
the month of July 2020.
 
28.    Given my findings
with respect to substantial interference, there is no need to address
and I make no findings regarding harassment. I next consider to what remedies
the Tenant may be entitled.
 
Remedies sought
 
29.    At the hearing, the Tenant clarified some of the
remedies he sought. These were essentially oral requests
to amend the Tenant’s application made at the hearing. The Board’s Rule 15 governs when and how
an application may be amended.
 
30.   
Under Rule 15.4, requests
to amend applications at a hearing
may be granted where
I am satisfied the amendment is appropriate, would not prejudice any
party and is consistent with a fair and expeditious process. I have considered each of the Tenant’s clarifications with this in
mind.




 
Commuting Expenses
 
31.   
In his application, the Tenant
claimed expenses for 15 days of commuting from his girlfriend’s apartment in
Cambridge to London, where he worked, in each of May and June 2020. The Tenant testified that as of May 1, 2020, he had another
rental unit around the corner from the rental unit in
issue at which he could sleep. As a result, I find there is no basis for a
claim for commuting costs in May and June.
 
32.    At the hearing the Tenant clarified he also sought compensation
for commuting between April 11 and April 30, 2020. This was not claimed in
his application and the specific number of days claimed during this period is
not clear. As set out above, it is also disputed whether and how much the Tenant used and occupied
the rental unit after April 11, 2020. Finally, the Tenant
advised the basis for his claim of cost per mile was taken from what was used
in a business. No evidence of how much he actually spent on mileage was
provided.
 
33.    In these circumstances, I find permitting the Tenant
to amend the application without notice so as to claim these commuting expenses is not appropriate. Further,
even were this amendment permitted, I would not grant it as the Tenant
failed to provide sufficient
evidence to meet his burden of proof.
 
Moving Expenses
 
34.   
The Tenant initially sought
moving expenses in the amount
of $1,039.60. At the hearing, the Tenant sought a lesser amount
as his actual moving expenses were $435.00. This was supported by an invoice
dated June 22, 2020. I find this is an appropriate amendment that is not
prejudicial and permitting it is consistent with a fair and expeditious
process.
 
35.   
I
have found the Tenant moved out of the rental unit because
of the Landlords’ actions
that amount to substantial interference with the Tenant’s
rights. Section 31(b)(ii) of the Act provides that the Tenant may be awarded reasonable
out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Tenant in these circumstances.
 
36.    The Tenant hired movers for one day at a significantly
reduced rate from what was originally estimated and got assistance packing
which helped reduce costs. The Tenant provided an explanation why he hired
movers to move out of the rental unit but not into the rental unit, and what he could and could
not lift. This was not seriously challenged on cross-examination. I find the Tenant’s moving costs were
reasonable and the Landlords shall pay the Tenant for these costs in the amount
of $435.00.
 
Prohibition Against
Ongoing Harassment During
Move
 
37.   
The Tenant no longer
sought an order
that the Landlord
stop ongoing harassment during his move.




 
Rent Differential and Abatement/Refund
 
38.   
On his application the Tenant sought
the difference in rent between
the two rental units for one
year following the date he vacated. I did not understand the Tenant still sought this remedy but if he
did, I would not grant it as the rental units are not equivalent. The Tenant testified
his new apartment is 1.5 times
larger than the rental unit yet
the rent is less than 1.5 times
greater.
 
39.    The Tenant is seeking a refund
in rent for May, June, and
July. By his own admission, the Tenant did not give notice to the Landlords he wished to
leave until the end of May, did not move his personal belongings until June 22,
2020, and did not give up possession until July 31, 2020. While the Tenant
testified this was because the Landlords would not terminate his tenancy absent
60 days’ notice he could have moved out anyway and asked the Board to retroactively
terminate the tenancy to the date he vacated. As the Tenant chose
to remain in possession of the rental unit through July,
his obligation to pay
rent also continued through July.
 
40.   
However, I will award the Tenant
a full abatement of one month’s rent to be attributed to the month of July 2020 as I have found
the Landlords substantially interfered with the Tenant’s rights with respect to
the rental unit during that month.
 
41.    As the Tenant
was successful on his application, his cost of filing the application
is awarded.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.       
The Landlords shall pay to the
Tenant $435.00 which is the reasonable out of pocket expenses the Tenant incurred for moving out of the rental
unit on or about June 22, 2020.
 
2.       
The Landlords shall pay the Tenant
$600.00 which represents a refund of rent for the
month of July 2020.
 
3.       
The Landlords shall also pay the Tenant $45.00
for the cost of filing the application.
 
4.       
The total amount the Landlords owe to the Tenant is $1,070.00.
 
5.       
The Landlords shall pay the Tenant
the full amount
owing by January
15, 2022.
 
6.       
If the Landlords do not pay the
Tenant the full amount
owing by January
16, 2022, the Landlords will owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from
January 11, at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
7.       
The Tenant has the right, at any time, to collect
the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.




 
 
 
January 4, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Rebecca Case
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

