Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-06
File number:	
SWT-41604-20

Citation:	Ripley v Pellett, 2022 CanLII 52434 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jptwm>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
57
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWT-41604-20
 
 
In the matter
of:      LOWER, 1621 PELISSIER STREET
WINDSOR ON N8X1N1
 




Between:                  Linda Ripley Richard Ripley


Tenants




 
 
and
 




Fernand Atieh Guy Pellett
Mary-Lana Holland Matthew Holland


Landlords




 
 
 
Linda Ripley and Richard
Ripley (the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that Mary-Lana
Holland, Matthew Holland, Guy Pellett and Fernand Atieh (the 'Landlords'), gave
a notice of termination in bad faith.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 4,
2021.
 
Guy Pellett,
Matthew Holland and Matthew Holland’s Legal Representative, Brenda Mercer,
attended the hearing. The Tenants
and the Tenants'
Legal Representative, Christopher Hall, attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The rental
complex is a duplex consisting of a lower
and upper unit.
 
2.    
Guy Pellett
(‘GP’) is the former Landlord.
He sold the rental complex
to Matthew Holland (‘MH’), his spouse and
father-in-law, Fernand Atieh (‘FA’). The Tenant’s moved out July 1, 2019 and
the sale of the residential complex was completed on July 3, 2019.
 
3.    
This application is brought pursuant
to s. 57(1)(b) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the 'Act')
which states:
 
57 (1) The Board may make an order described in subsection (3) if, on application by a former tenant of a
rental unit, the Board determines that,
 
(b) the
landlord gave a notice of termination under section 49 in bad faith, the former tenant vacated
the rental unit as
a result of the notice or as a result of
an




 
application to or order made by the Board based on the notice, and
no person referred to in clause 49 (1) (a), (b), (c) or (d) or 49 (2) (a), (b), (c) or (d) occupied
the rental unit within a reasonable time after the former tenant vacated the rental unit;
 
4.    
What this provision means is that in order to succeed
on this application the Tenants must lead sufficient evidence to
establish it is more likely than not that:
 
(1)    
The Tenants
got a notice of termination under s. 49;
 
(2)    
The Tenants
moved out of the rental unit as a result
of the Landlord’s notice;
 
(3)    
The notice
was given in bad faith
meaning the Purchaser had no genuine intention of moving into the
rental unit; and
 
(4)    
The Purchaser
did not in fact move into the rental unit within a reasonable time after the Tenants vacated.
 
3.    
There is no dispute
between the parties
about the first,
second and fourth
element of this test. The central dispute between
them is whether the Purchasers had a genuine intention of moving into the
rental unit.
 
4.    
The Tenants
take the position
that the Purchasers’ intention was not to move in. Rather, they intended to re-rent the
rental units at a higher price than what the Tenants were paying. Therefore,
the N12 notice was given to them in bad faith.
 
5.    
MH testified
that he, his spouse and FA were looking to purchase a property to live in and
rent out. In April 2019, MH and FA attended the residential complex for a
viewing. When they entered the residence, FA could not stand the smoke smell,
so he waited outside during the viewing. Although MH noticed the heavy smoke
damage during the viewing, the property was suitable for their needs. The
intention was for FA to live in the rental unit. MH was under the impression
that he could remedy the smoke smell.
 
6.    
After taking possession
of the residential complex, MH immediately began repairs to remedy the smoke
damage, including engaging professionals to perform remedial work. Despite his
efforts, MH could not remediate the smoke damage and the smell. On or about August
30, 2019, MH came to the realization that the house was not suitable for FA
to occupy because FA was a
non-smoker and could not stand the smell. At this point, MH allowed his friend to stay at
the rental unit in exchange for his friend’s services to maintain the residential complex and attempt
to remediate the smoke smell. However, the smell of smoke is still present. The
rental unit is currently rented at a monthly rent of
$650.00.
 
7.    
I found MH’s testimony
to be credible and uncontradicted on cross examination. I also found MH
provided a reasonable explanation for why FA did not move
into the rental unit. I
also note that the rental
unit currently being rented at a lower rent than what the Tenants
were paying does not support
the Tenants allegations that the purchasers were motivated by
charging higher rent.




 
8.    
Having regard to all
the evidence and circumstances, I am satisfied it is more likely than not that
the purchasers genuinely believed that they could remediate the smoke damage
and intended to move FA into the rental unit after the remedial work was complete.
However, despite their best efforts,
time, and expense,
they were unable
to remediate the smoke damage to make the rental unit
suitable for FA.
 
9.    
Accordingly, I find that the N12 notice was not given to the Tenants in bad faith. Therefore, the Tenants’ application
must be dismissed.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Tenants'
application is dismissed.
 
 
January 6, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Khalid Akram
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin
Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

