Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-27
File number:	
SWT-44514-20

Citation:	Bokdam v Mayblossom Farms Inc., 2022 CanLII 81367 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrt61>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under
Sections 5(b) & 31
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWT-44514-20
 
 



In the
  matter of:


843579 ROAD 84 EMBRO ON N0J1J0


 




Between:


Judith Bokdam Jordan Atkinson


Tenants




 


and


 




 


Mayblossom Farms Inc. Joost Jongert, Bonnie
Jongert


Landlords



 
 
 
Judith Bokdam and Jordan Atkinson (the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that Joost
Jongert, Bonnie Jongert and Mayblossom Farms Inc. (the 'Landlords') harassed, obstructed,
coerced, threatened or interfered with them and entered the rental unit
illegally.
 
This application was heard by
videoconference on October 4, 2021. The Tenant, Jordan
Atkinson, and the Landlords attended
the hearing. Preliminary
Issue – Does the Act apply?
1.       
The Tenant argues that the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) applies to the
living accommodation.
 
2.       
The Landlords argue that the Act does not apply due to the exemption set out in subsection 5(b) of the Act, which
states:
 
This Act does not apply with respect to,
 
(b) living accommodation whose occupancy is conditional upon the
occupant continuing to be employed on a farm, whether or not the accommodation is located
on that farm.
 
3.       
The burden of proof of whether
the Act applies
rests on the party claiming
the exemption. In this case, the Landlords must establish on a
balance of probabilities that occupancy of the unit is conditional upon the
occupant’s employment at a farm.
 
4.        
The Landlords testified that the
conversations regarding the Tenants occupying the property arose during the
discussions surrounding employment at the Landlords’ dairy farm on or about April 1, 2020. The dairy farm is
located at a separate address
in Embro.




 
5.       
The Landlords testified that they only provide the rented property for people who would work on their farm and that this was
evident when the Tenants viewed the property because it was not listed for rent online or anywhere. It was
only offered to the Tenant because they would be doing work for them on
their farm. The Landlords testified that they
agreed with the Tenant to pay the Tenant and to subsidize
the rent at the house in
exchange for work on their farm.
 
6.       
It is the Landlords’ position that had it not been for the agreement for the Tenant
to perform work on their farm, they would not have offered the unit to
the Tenants.
 
7.       
There is no dispute that the
Tenant, Jordan Atkinson, performed work for the Landlords on the Landlords’ dairy farm and that he received a rent subsidy
and was paid for work he
performed for the Landlords.
 
8.       
The Tenants did not dispute that
the parties agreed at the outset that occupation of the house was conditional upon the Tenant performing work at the dairy farm. Their position, however, was that because they
were a sub contractor, section 5(b) of the Act is not engaged because
they were not an “employee” of the farm, and thus occupation was not
conditional on “employment”.
 
9.       
Section 202 of the Act states:
 
202. (1) in
making findings on an application, the Board shall ascertain the real substance of all transactions and activities relating
to a residential complex or a
rental unit and the good faith of the participants and in doing so,
 
(a) 
may disregard the outward
form of a transaction or the separate
corporate existence of participants; an
 
(b) 
may have regard to the pattern
of activities relating
to the residential complex or the rental unit.
 
10.    
The Landlords testified that the
Tenant filed a complaint with the Ministry of Labour regarding unpaid
wages. The Tenants
explanation for this complaint was that it was hard to get paid on time from the
Landlords and this was a tactic he resorted to in order to ensure he got paid.
 
11.     In accordance with section 202 of the Act, I find that
the exemption applies. The parties agreed that the Tenants could live in the house so long as they were working
on the farm. After that, the Tenant’s decision to file a complaint with
the Ministry of Labour as an employee of the Landlords’ suggest that he himself
considered himself an employee. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that the
Act does not apply.
 
12.     It is ordered that:
 
 
(a)  
The Tenants’ application is dismissed.




 
 
 
January 27, 2022
Date Issued
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite
400, 4th Floor London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

