Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-10
File number:	
SWT-43148-20

Citation:	Lafleur v Marcotte, 2022 CanLII 87316 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2rz>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 30 and 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWT-43148-20
SWT-44080-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


B, 139 ROURKE
LINE STREET N BELLE RIVER ON N0R1A0


 




Between:


Arlene Lafleur


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Marty Marcotte Marika Marcotte


Landlord



 
 
 
Arlene Lafleur (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Marty & Marika Marcotte (the 'Landlord') failed to meet the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act')
or failed to comply with health, safety,
housing or maintenance standards (T6 application) and because the Landlord’s harassed,
obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the Tenant, entered the
rental unit illegally and substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or by a member of the
Tenant's household (T2 application).
 
This application was heard by
way of video conference on October 18, 2021. The following
individuals attended the hearing:
 
•        
Arlene Lafleur – Tenant
•        
John Kulikowski – Tenant’s
legal representative
•        
Marty Marcotte – Landlord
•        
Marika Marcotte - Landlord
•        
Audrey Skinner – Former
Landlord’s legal representative
 
Accommodation was provided to the Tenant
pursuant to the Human
Rights Code, R.S.O.
1990
(the code) in the form of closed caption
services being made available during
this hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    The Tenant’s T6 application was filed on April 18,
2020 and alleges that the Landlord has failed to maintain the rental unit in a
good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with health, safety,
housing and maintenance standards. The Tenant
also filed a T2 application
on June 12, 2020 alleging that the Landlord entered the rental unit illegally,
harassed the Tenant and substantially interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit.




 
 
2.   
The Tenant moved into the rental
unit on December 23, 2019 and vacated
on August 21, 2020.
 
Adjournment request:
 
3.   
The Landlord’s requested an
adjournment on the grounds that they were not reasonably able to prepare for the matter and needed to retain new legal
counsel. The Tenant did not consent to the Landlord’s adjournment
request.
 
4.    Audrey Skinner testified at the hearing and is the
Landlord’s former legal representative. Ms. Skinner is a Paralegal
with the Law Society of Ontario (LSO) and
stated that she was on a limited
retainer by the Landlord and only participated in the Case Management Hearing
(CMH) held on May 14, 2020. Ms.
Skinner testified that her retainer and representation of the Landlord ceased
as of June 30, 2020.
 
5.    I declined the Landlord’s request to adjourn the
matter. The Landlord’s legal
representative ceased to be retained on the matter effective June 2020, meaning
the Landlord has had approximately 17 to seek alternate representation. The Landlord was aware that a merits
hearing was being scheduled for this matter and failed to act diligently
in preparing for the hearing.
 
6.    The matters were scheduled for a CMH over 18 months
ago and an Interim order was issued on June 2, 2020 advising the parties that
the matters would be scheduled for a merits hearing. The Landlord’s knew that the matter was ongoing before the Board
and further knew that their legal representative retainer ended June 30, 2020. I find it unreasonable that the Landlords
have waited until the hearing date to consider retaining new legal representation when they knew for approximately 17 months ago that their prior legal representative ceased their
services.
 
7.   
As such,
the Landlord’s adjournment request is denied,
and the matter
proceeded to be heard on its merits.
 
8.    The hearing proceeded
with the Landlord’s attending on a self represented basis.
 
T6 application:
 
Tenant’s evidence:
 
9.    The Tenant testified that the tenancy commenced on December 23, 2019
but she did not move into the
rental unit until the beginning of January 2020. The Tenant’s rent was
$600.00 per month.
 
10. The Tenant testified that on or about January
15, 2020 she discovered mold growing on the floor underneath her bed and along
the bedframe. The Tenant did not
advise the Landlord of the concerns on this day.




 
11. On January 23, 2020 the Tenant observed mold growing
throughout other areas of the rental unit including the blinds, bedroom and bathroom window frames, baseboards of
the bedroom and bathroom, the nightstand in the bedroom and in the Tenant’s
teabags stored on the kitchen
counter. The Tenant testified that
she advised the Landlords of her concerns via text message on January 23, 2020. The Tenant submitted into evidence several
pictures to support presence of mold in the rental unit (TT exhibit #1).
 
12. The Landlord did not attend
the rental unit towards the end of February 2020 to inspect
the mold. The Landlord did not
repair the issues, but simply installed plastic wrap over the window frames and
advised the Tenant not to remove the plastic.
 
13. The Tenant testified that the skirting boards
underneath the siding on the back portion of the rental unit were rotting and
that there were openings allowing animals to enter underneath the house. The Tenant submitted into evidence
pictures to support the rotting skirting boards (TT exhibit #2). The Tenant testified that on or about
March 2020 the Landlord attended the rental
and did not repair the rotted skirting
boards, but rather leaned wooden
boards and cinder blocks against the rotted boards to prevent animals from
entering the open areas. The Tenant entered
into evidence photos
of the Landlord’s repair (TT exhibit #3).
 
14. The Tenant testified that roof of the of the rental unit had no eavestrough
and that on rainy days, she
would get water leaking into her bedroom. The
Tenant testified that the Landlord only addressed
the issue in April 2020 and
simply nailed used shingles to the top portion of the siding. The Tenant submitted into evidence a photo
of the Landlord’s repair (TT exhibit #4).
 
15. Throughout the Tenancy, there was a tall tree leaning
against the side of the rental unit. The Tenant testified that the Landlord did
not address the issue despite being advised of the concerns. The Tenant
submitted into evidence
a picture of the tree leaning against
the side of the home (TT exhibit #5).
 
16. The Tenant testified that the front steps of the
wooden deck were rotting during the entire tenancy. The Tenant advised the Landlord of the concern on or about March
2020 repaired the issue
on or about April 2020. The Tenant
submitted into evidence two photos of the rotted step and the Landlord’s repair (TT exhibit
#6).
 
17. The Tenant entered into evidence a text message
discussion between her and the Landlords during the month of April 2020 (TT
exhibit #7). In the text message, the
Tenant advises the Landlord Marika Marcotte of the extensive repairs needed. The Landlord responded by stating “We don’t have the money for all the repairs”
and “we will have to sell the house”. The Tenant testified that since vacating the rental unit in
August 2020, the issues had still not been repaired.
 
18. Rob Corbin, a licensed home inspector for the past 15
years, testified on behalf of the Tenant. Mr. Corbin
provided a home inspection of the
rental unit on May 22, 2020 at the
request of the Tenant. The Tenant entered into evidence a copy
of the home inspection report (TT exhibit #7).




 
 
19. Mr. Corbin testified that during his inspection, he observed that the
home had mold and structural
issues, that the roof line was separated from the siding of the home and was
prone to water leakage and the railings on the front porch was loose. Mr. Corbin also testified that the
large tree leaning against
the rental unit may affect
the structure of the home as the roots of the tree would
be growing underneath the rental unit.
 
 
Landlord’s evidence:
 
20. The Landlord Marika Marcotte provided oral testimony
at the hearing. Ms. Marcotte
testified that the rental unit is approximately 80 years old and that the Tenant was aware of
the state of the rental unit prior to moving in and did not mind the current
state. Ms. Marcotte testified that
the Landlord’s did not inspect the rental unit prior to renting it to the
current Tenant.
 
21. The Landlord acknowledges that she received the
pictures and text message from the Tenant on January 23, 2020
regarding the mold. The Landlord’s were in Florida
at the time and advised the
Tenant’s to use bleach on the areas were mold was growing.
 
22. The Landlord testified
that the previous
tenants did not complain regarding
the condition of the rental unit and made no mention of
mold in the rental unit.
 
23. The Landlord Marty
Marcotte also provided
oral testimony at the hearing.
Mr. Marcotte testified that
he never put plastic on the windows and believes that the prior Tenant
installed this. Mr. Marcotte
confirmed that upon inspection he did observe mold on the bathroom and bedroom
window.
 
24. The Landlord testified that they were aware of the
skirting on the bottom of the siding
was rotting, but state that this was only on one side of the home. The Landlord further stated that this
problem existed before the Tenant moved into the rental unit and that the prior
Tenants did not complain about this issue.
The Landlord testified
that every time he went over to repair the maintenance
concerns, the Tenant would obstruct and kick him off the property. The Landlord further testified that the
house is over 80 years old and passed inspection at the time of being built.
 
25. On cross examination, the Landlord confirmed that the siding and skirting has not been repaired as of the date of the
hearing.
 
T6 Analysis:
 
21. Section 20 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the Act) states:
 
20. (1) A
landlord is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex,
including the rental units in it, in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with health, safety,
housing and maintenance standards




 
 
(2) Subsection (1) applies even if the tenant was aware of a state of non-repair or a contravention of
a standard before entering into the tenancy agreement
 
26. Based on the evidence before the Board, I am satisfied
that the Landlord has failed to maintain the rental unit in a good state of
repair. The evidence before the Board
establishes that the rental unit had mold and structural problems. The evidence also suggests that the wooden
skirting and front steps of the rental unit were rotting and not properly repaired
by the Landlord. The Tenant’s testimony was credible and supported by documentary evidence and testimony
from a licensed home inspector. Although
the Landlords’ asserted that the Tenant was aware of the maintenance
deficiencies prior to taking possession of the rental unit, section 20(2)
of the Act clearly states that this
is not a relevant consideration.
 
27. The evidence before the Board also establishes that
the Landlord did not take reasonable steps to repair the mold or rotting
skirting on the foundation of the rental unit.
The Landlord’s response of simply leaning plywood and cinder blocks
against the rotting wood cannot be considered as a repair to the maintenance
issue. Further, the Landlord’s
argument that the prior Tenant installed plastic coverings over the windows and
thus causing mold is not acceptable. The Landlord is required to ensure that the
rental unit is in a good state
of repair prior to a new Tenant taking possession of the rental unit.
 
 
T2 application:
 
Tenant’s evidence:
 
28. The Tenant testified that on April 26, 2020 the
Landlord Marty Marcotte illegally entered her
rental unit. The Tenant testified
that the Landlord
showed up to the rental
unit without notice and began
to seal and caulk the windows.
 
29. On May 3, 2020 the Landlord Marty
Marcotte again entered
the rental unit to inspect
the condition of the rental unit. The Tenant testified that there was no
prior notice to enter.
 
30. On May 10, 2020 the Tenant testified that the
Landlord’s son attended the rental unit and began to demand proof from the
Tenant that she was disabled and
required a service dog. During this
altercation, the Tenant testified that the Landlord’s son also hit her dog. The Tenant testified that she contacted the Police regarding
this incident. The Police did not
lay any charges against the Landlord’s son.
 
31. The Tenant testified
that on June 10, 2020 the Landlord had served her with a N5 notice of
termination. The reasons for serving
the N5 notice were because the Tenant had hired a home inspection to visit and
assess the maintenance concerns of the property. The Tenant entered into evidence a copy of the N5 notice (TT
exhibit #8).




 
Landlord’s evidence:
 
32. The Landlord Marty
Marcotte testified that on both April 26, 2020 and May
3, 2020 he had texted the
Tenant during the morning of the entry advising that he would be attending the rental unit to inspect and/or conduct
repairs on the rental unit. Mr.
Marcotte testified that the Tenant told him at the start of the tenancy to
simply send a text message before arriving at the rental unit.
 
33. The Landlord’s dispute
that their son attended the rental unit on May 10, 2020 to harass the Tenant and further testified
that the Landlord’s son smacked the Tenant’s dog only because the Tenant’s dog
rushed and jumped at their son. The Landlord’s son was not present at the
hearing to testify or provide further clarification on this incident.
 
34. On cross examination the Landlord’s agreed that they
served the Tenant with a N5 notice of termination for obtaining a home
inspection of the rental unit. The
Landlord’s maintained the position
that as the owners of the property, they should have been advised of a home inspector entering the
rental unit.
 
T2 Analysis:
 
 
35. Sections 22 and 23 of the Act state:
 
22.   
A landlord shall not at
any time during a tenant’s
occupancy of a rental unit and before the day on which an order
evicting the tenant is executed substantially interfere with the reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located
for all usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household
 
23.  
A landlord shall not harass, obstruct,
coerce, threaten or interfere with a tenant.
 
36.
Based on the
evidence before the Board, I am satisfied that the Landlord has substantially interfered
with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit and further harassed
the Tenant by sending their son to the rental
unit to demand proof of the Tenant’s
disability and by further assaulting the Tenant’s dog. Although the Landlord’s dispute this
incident, their son was not present to testify at the hearing and the Tenant
had direct knowledge of
the incidents. As such, I prefer the Tenant’s direct testimony, which I am satisfied and credible, as opposed to the Landlord’s
hearsay evidence about this incident.
 
37.
I am also
satisfied that the Landlord has substantially interfered with the Tenant’s
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit and further harassed the Tenant by
serving the Tenant with an N5 notice of termination for simply obtaining a home
inspection. The Tenant has the right
to have the rental unit inspected to ensure that the unit is in a good state of
repair for the purposes of reporting concerns to the Landlord. The Landlord’s argument that the Tenant
must obtain their
possession to have another individual enter the rental unit
and inspect maintenance concerns is incorrect and not supported by the Act.




 
The Landlord
further provided no evidence to support that the actions of the Tenant
warranted an N5 notice or that they substantially interfered with the Landlord’s reasonable enjoyment, lawful rights, privileges or interests.
 
38. Sections 26 and 27
of the Act states in part:
 
26  (1). A landlord may enter a rental unit at any time without
written notice,
 
(a)    
in cases of emergency; or
(b)    
if the tenant consents
to the entry at the time of entry
 
 
27  (1). A landlord
may enter a rental unit in accordance with written notice given to the
tenant at least 24 hours before the time of entry under the following circumstances:
1. To carry out a
repair or replacement or do work in the rental
unit.
 
39.
Based on the
evidence before the Board, I am satisfied that the Landlord illegally entered
the rental unit on April 26, 2020 and May 3, 2020. The Landlord’s own evidence indicates that the Tenant was not
provided with a written notice of entry at least 24 hours notice in advance as required by section 27 (1) of the Act. Further,
the Landlord did not provide
any evidence to establishing that the Tenant offered consent at the time
of entry or that it was an emergency as provide by section 26(1) of the Act. Although
the Landlord argues that at the commencement of the tenancy that
the Tenant advised the Landlord that they did not need to provide proper notice as required by the Act, a blanket
consent to entry at any time is not permitted in the Act and is
also in direct contradiction of section 3(1) which clearly states:
 
3 (1) This Act, except Part V.1, applies with respect to rental
units in residential complexes, despite any other Act and despite
any agreement or waiver to the
contrary.
 
Remedies:
 
Rent Abatement:
 
40.
The Tenant request a 100% rent abatement from January 1, 2020 to August 31, 2020. An abatement of rent recognises the idea
that a tenant is paying rent for a bundle of goods and services and if the
tenant is not receiving everything being paid for then he or she is entitled to
abatement proportional to the difference between what is being paid for and
what is being received.




 
 
41.
Based on the
evidence and assessing the impact on the Tenant, I find that the Tenant is
entitled to a rent abatement of $2,400.00 for the maintenance issues. This amount consists of a 50% rent abatement
for the months of January
2020 through to August 2020.
 
42.
I find that the
Tenant is also entitled to a rent abatement for the two illegal entries. In Wrona
v. Toronto Community Housing Corporation, [2007] O.J. No. 423 (Div. Ct.) the
Divisional Court ordered a rent abatement of $1,000.00 for a single illegal entry. I do not consider that, by granting an
abatement of $1,000 in Wrona, the Divisional Court was setting a minimum
amount that should be ordered in all cases of illegal entry. While that award is a factor
in the assessment of a reasonable abatement, what is reasonable will be a decision
based upon the particular facts and circumstances before the Board.
 
43. In this matter,
the Landlord’s entries
were to conduct repair work on the rental unit, not to harass the Tenant. As such, I find that the Tenant is entitled $200.00 rent abatement for each day of illegal entry
for a total of $400.00.
 
44.
Based on the
evidence before the Board, I find that the Tenant is entitled to a rent
abatement for the harassment and substantial interference with her reasonable enjoyment during the altercation that occurred on May 10, 2020. This was a single incident and neither
party provided any evidence to suggest that this similar conduct repeated, I
find that the Tenant is entitled to a $60.00 rent abatement for the month of May
2020. This amount consists of a 10%
rent abatement for the month the incident occurred.
 
45.
Based on the
evidence before the Board, I find that the Tenant is also entitled to a rent
abatement for the harassment and substantial interference with her reasonable enjoyment
when the Landlord served an N5 notice on June 10, 2020. I find that the Tenant
is entitled to a $60.00 rent
abatement for the month of June 2020. This
amount consists of a 10% rent abatement for the month the incident occurred.
 
46. As such, the Tenant is entitled to a
total rent abatement of $2,920.00
 
 
Administrative Fine:
 
47. The Board’s Interpretation Guideline 16 entitled
Administrative Fines addresses
when the Board generally
imposes fines:
 
An administrative fine is a remedy to be used by the Board to encourage compliance with the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the "RTA"), and to deter
landlords from engaging
in similar activity in the future. This remedy is not normally imposed
unless a landlord has




 
shown a blatant disregard for the RTA and other
remedies will not provide adequate deterrence and compliance.
 
48.
While I am not
bound to follow the Board Guidelines, I see no reason to depart from the
guidance provided by Guideline 16. Therefore,
I shall consider whether the Landlord has shown a blatant disregard for the
Act, and if he has, are the remedies already awarded sufficient deterrence?
 
49.
Based on the
evidence before the Board, I find that while the Landlord has breached the Act, I am not satisfied that the Landlord’s conduct shows blatant
disregard for the Act. It is
clear that the Landlord is either misinformed with the Act or felt that their attempted repairs were sufficient.
 
50.
The Tenant’s
request for the Landlord to pay an administrative fine to the Board is
therefore denied.
Out of pocket expenses:
 
51. The Tenant requested
on their T2 application that the Board order the Landlord to pay
$5,700.00 in out
of pocket expenses. The Tenant
provided no evidence, nor made any submissions
at the hearing to support
this claim. As such, the Tenant’s request
for out of pocket expenses is denied.
Moving and storage expenses:
 
52.
The Tenant
requested that the Board order the Landlord to pay $500.00 in moving and
storage expenses. The Tenant provided no evidence, nor made any submissions at the
hearing to support this claim. As
such, the Tenant’s request for moving and storage expenses is denied.
Difference in rent:
 
53.
The Tenant requested that the Board order the Landlord to pay $9,600.00
in the difference of rent between the Tenant’s old rental unit and
their new rental unit for one year from the date they moved out of the rental
unit. The Tenant provided no
evidence, nor made any submissions at the hearing to support this claim. As such, the Tenant’s request is denied.
Costs to repair damaged
property:
 
54.
The Tenant
requested that the Board order the Landlord to pay $6,835.50 to replace
property that was damaged or disposed of. The Tenant
provided no evidence, nor made any
submissions at the hearing to support this claim. As such, the Tenant’s request is denied.




 
Costs to repair rental
unit:
 
55.
The Tenant
requested that the Board authorize the Tenant to conduct repairs
on the rental unit and order the Landlord to pay $3,200.00 costs that
the Tenant paid for repairs. The
Tenant provided no evidence, nor made any submissions at the hearing to support
this claim. As such, the Tenant’s
request is denied.
Filing Fee:
 
56.
The Tenant is entitled
to reimbursement for the cost of filing their applications. The Tenant paid $45.00
to file both the T2 and T6 application. The
Tenant shall be awarded a total of
$90.00 for the costs of filing the applications.
 
57. This Order contains
all the reasons for this matter. No further reasons
will issue.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant a rent abatement
of $2,920.00
 
2.    
The Landlord shall also pay the Tenant $90.00 for the cost of filing the applications.
 
3.      
The total amount the Landlord owes the Tenant
is $3,010.00.
 
4.    
The Landlord shall pay the Tenant the full amount owing by February
21, 2022.
 
5.    
If the Landlord does not pay the
Tenant the full amount owing by February 21, 2022 the Landlord will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from February
22, 2022 at 2.00% annually on
the outstanding balance.
 
 
 
 
February 10,
2022
Date Issued                                                                      Fabio Quattrociocchi
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

