Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-13
File number:	
SWT-49454-21

Citation:	Harris v Harlock, 2022 CanLII 63691 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jqppj>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 57
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWT-49454-21
 
 
In the matter of:      42 HAMMET STREET
CAMBRIDGE ON N3C2H4
 
Between:                  Tracy Harris                                    Tenant
 
 
and
 




Lisa Harlock Dennis Harlock


Landlords




 
 
 
Tracy Harris (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Lisa and Dennis Harlock
(the 'Landlords'), gave a notice of termination in bad faith.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on December 6, 2021.
 
The Tenant, the Tenant’s partner,
Daryl Stevenson, an occupant and witness, the Landlord’s Legal Representative, Lisa Nadon, and the Landlord, Dennis Harlock, attended
the hearing. The Tenant declined to speak with Duty
Counsel prior to the start of the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.       
The parties agree Dennis
Harlock was also a Landlord
and he is added to the application as a party Landlord.
 
2.       
Tracy Harris is the only
individual listed on the lease. Her long-term partner, Darryl Stevenson, also resided
at the rental unit but was not named on the lease.
As a result, Darryl Stevenson is removed as a party Tenant to the
application.
 
3.       
The rental unit was a
semi-detached house. The Tenant resided there for seven years. The Tenant and occupant testified
they wished to buy the home, had frequently told the Landlords this, and invested time and money in the property as they thought
they would be living there
long-term.
 
4.       
The Tenant alleges the Landlords
terminated their tenancy in bad faith. In particular, it is alleged, the
Landlord, Lisa Harlock, is a real estate agent with knowledge of the market,
and the Tenant and her family were evicted so that the rental unit could be renovated and sold for a profit through a bidding
war.
 
5.       
The parties agree on a number
of facts as follows:




 
a.     
the Landlords served the Tenant a
notice of termination for landlord’s own use on January 22, 2020 (the ‘N12’).
The N12 provided their child, in this case their daughter, would
be occupying the rental unit. The termination date in the N12 was June 30, 2020;
 
b.     
the Tenant vacated the rental unit in accordance with the N12 on February
29, 2020;
 
c.     
the Landlord’s daughter moved into
the rental unit. Based on the Landlord’s, Dennis Harlock’s, evidence I find this was on April 15, 2020, and note this accords
with the Tenant’s belief; and,
 
d.     
the property was listed
and sold within
one year of the Tenant’s
vacating the rental unit. The Landlords advised the
sale closed on February 26, 2021.
 
6.       
Under s. 57(1)(a) of the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, in order to grant an application
a Tenant has been given a N12 in bad faith the Tenant must vacate in accordance
with the N12, the intended person must
not move into the rental unit within
a reasonable time after the former tenant vacates, and the application must
be given in bad faith.
 
7.       
As set out above,
there is no dispute the Landlord’s daughter
was the intended occupant and she moved into the rental
unit. The question then is whether she moved in within a reasonable time.
 
8.       
The Tenant moved out four months in advance
of the termination date.
 
9.       
As set out above,
the Landlord’s daughter
and her boyfriend moved into the rental unit a
month and a half after the Tenant vacated.
 
10.   
The Landlord, Dennis Harlock,
testified his daughter
did not move into the rental unit until
April as she was commuting back and forth to London, Ontario finishing up
teacher’s college.
 
11.    The Landlord’s daughter and her boyfriend filed a
declaration and were not present to testify.
Their evidence was they could not afford
the rental unit right away but did work on the rental unit the month after the
Tenant left and moved in shortly thereafter. While the declaration is hearsay
and accorded little weight, the Tenant and the occupant had no evidence about
when the Landlord’s daughter moved in
other than what was provided to them
by the Landlords.
 
12.    In these circumstances, particularly where the Tenant
moved out significantly in advance of the termination date and the intended occupant
was working on the
rental unit although not yet resident, I find the Landlord’s daughter moved
into the rental unit within a reasonable time after the Tenant vacated.
 
13.   
As a result, the Tenant has not
satisfied the necessary statutory element that the intended person on the N12 did not occupy
the rental unit within a reasonable time after
she vacated and the application is dismissed.




 
It is ordered
that:
 
1.       
Dennis Harlock is added as a party Landlord
to the application.
 
2.       
Darryl Stevenson is removed
as a party Tenant to the application.
 
3.       
The Tenant’s application is dismissed.
 
 
 
January 13, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Rebecca Case
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

