Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-13
File number:	
SWT-50182-21

Citation:	Pappas v  Thornton, 2022 CanLII 57948 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq2vv>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
130
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWT-50182-21
 
 



In the
  matter of:


906, 389 DUNDAS
STREET LONDON ON N6B3L5


 




Between:


Melissa Pappas
  Thomas Muise


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Rhys
  Thornton


Landlord



 
 
 
Melissa Pappas
and Thomas Muise (the 'Tenants') applied for a reduction of the rent charged for the rental unit due to a reduction or
discontinuance in services or facilities provided in respect of the rental unit
or the residential complex.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 4,
2021.
 
The Landlord,
represented by Christina Thornton, and the Tenants attended the hearing. The Tenants
indicated an interest
in Tenant Duty Counsel, but Tenant Duty Counsel was not
available. The Tenants elected to
proceed.
 
At the hearing,
the Tenants requested to withdraw the portion of their application that dealt
with the discontinuance of the gym. This matter
therefore revolves around
the loss of use of the pool only.
 
Determinations:
 
 
1.    
At the hearing, the parties agree to the following statement
of facts:
 
a)   
The Tenants
moved into the rental unit on July 22, 2020.
 
b)   
The Tenants
moved out of the rental
unit on August
31, 2021.
 
c)   
The pool was out of service
prior to the Tenants taking
possession of the rental unit because it was under construction.
 
d)   
The Pool was out of service
for the entire
tenancy because it was under construction.




 
e)   
The rental
unit is located
in a condominium complex and the condominium complex is managed by
a Board of Directors.
 
f)    
The Board of Directors provided ongoing service
updates regarding the pool and the
issues with supplies, contractors, and construction.
 
2.    
I take judicial notice
that in the midst of a global
pandemic, it is common knowledge that supplies are not available, construction projects were
halted and delayed, personal services were closed and access to pools and
fitness facilities have been limited.
 
3.    
Subsection 130(3) of
the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) states that on an
application such as this one, the Board shall make findings in accordance with
the prescribed rules. The prescribed rules are set out in section 39 of Ontario
Regulation 516/06. The rules essentially set out what remedy a tenant is entitled to on an application
such as this. They create a distinction between discontinuances in services or
facilities and reductions in services or facilities and a further
distinction between temporary versus permanent reductions and discontinuances. Here, the
situation is one of a reduction of a service or facility and the reduction is
presumed to be temporary. The regulation then makes a distinction between
temporary reductions that were reasonable in the circumstances and those that
were not.
 
4.    
I find that the reduction in the use of the pool facilities to be temporary in that the pool has been undergoing construction since
prior to the Tenants taking possession of the rental unit and there was
evidence before me to suggest that the pool will re-open once the construction
is complete.
 
5.    
For the following reasons,
I find that the reduction
of the pool was reasonable in the circumstances
and that no reduction of rent should be ordered.
 
6.    
Section 16 of the Act requires
that the person
entitled to claim
an amount as a result
of a breach has a duty to
minimize their losses.
 
7.    
On a balance of probabilities, I find that the Tenants
did not minimize
their losses.
 
8.    
The Tenants
and the Landlord submitted a series of text messages
between them into evidence.
 
9.    
Based on the evidence, I find that the Tenants
did not notify the Landlord
of an issue regarding the pool until January 5, 2021.
 
10.  There is a series of long text messages from the Tenants
on November 30, 2020, but the
message is illusive and vague as it pertains to any
specificity with an issue regarding the loss of use of the pool. The message asks the Landlord to help the
Tenants to consider any available options in lieu of amenities. The message goes on to discuss
specifically the gym facilities.
 
11.  The Landlord followed
up the same day and indicated that they reached
out to the office and
notified the Tenants that there should be updates regarding the amenities
within a




 
couple of days. The Landlord also offered to reach out to a gym
and the Tenants appeared to be satisfied with the Landlords response at
the time.
 
12.  On January 5, 2021 the Tenants sent the
Landlord another text. The text message includes a request for the Landlord to
consider reimbursement for the lack of amenities and specifically, because the
Tenant needed water as part of their physiotherapy. Other parts of the text
message indicate that the Tenants are struggling financially because of the
pandemic and the Tenant asserts that the Landlord should be able to get
reimbursement for the lack of amenities. The Tenants did not propose
any amount to the
Landlord as a reimbursement.
 
13. 
The Landlord
responded the same day and offered to terminate the lease early. Later the same day the Landlord followed up with
the Tenants and offered to reduce the rent by
$75.99 until the amenities were back in service. This was the cost of a membership at the YMCA that included access
to a pool and gym facilities. The Landlord submits
that the YMCA is located just down the street from the residential
complex.
 
14. 
The Tenants
refused to respond
to the Landlord’s offer.
 
15.  The Landlord followed
up by text on January
11, 2021 regarding the offer.
 
16.  The Tenants refused
to respond to the Landlords
follow up text.
 
17.  Until the date of the hearing, the Landlord was unaware of the Tenants’
expectations regarding any clear amount for any reduction in rent for
the loss of the pool.
 
18. 
For these
reasons, I find that ordering
a reduction in rent for the loss of use of the pool under the circumstances of a global
pandemic and for the Tenants’ failure to minimize their losses is
unreasonable.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Tenants’
application is dismissed.
 
 
January 13, 2022 Date Issued
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin
Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

