Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-03
File number:	
SWT-55415-21

Citation:	Walsh v Lee, 2022 CanLII 87342 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2s0>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWT-55415-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


110 REID COURT LONDON ON N6G5A6


 




Between:


Ryan Walsh


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


 


Landlord




 


Wai Yu Lee


 



 
 
 
 
Ryan Walsh
(the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that Wai Yu Lee (the
'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the
Tenant, entered the rental unit illegally, substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or
by a member of the Tenant's household and withheld or deliberately interfered
with the reasonable supply of a vital service, care service, or food that the
Landlord is obligated to supply under the tenancy agreement.
 
This application was heard by video conference on January 20, 2022. The Tenant and the Landlord attended the hearing. The Tenant
spoke with Duty Counsel prior to the hearing.
 
Although I find that the named
Tenant is not a Tenant
and the unit is not covered by the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), for ease of reference the parties are referred
to as “Landlord” and “Tenant” for the purpose for this order.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Landlord asserted
that the Act does not apply to the tenancy
because she shared the kitchen
facilities with the Tenant.
 
2.     The parties agree that the rental unit is in a home
shared by other occupants. The rental unit is
on the second floor of the home and the tenancy agreement states specifically
that the Tenant is renting one bedroom in the home.
 
3.     The Landlord testified that the home contained one
kitchen which she shared with the Tenant. The Landlord’s unit is in the
basement where she resided at the time the Tenant moved into the unit in May
2021. There is no kitchen in the basement.




4.    
The Landlord later contradicted
her testimony by stating that although she resided in the upper level from October
2020, she moved
into the basement
unit in August
or September 2021.
 
5.     In response to the Tenant’s question on why the
tenancy agreement does not reflect the fact that she resided in the home, the Landlord responded that she was unaware that she had to inform the Tenant.
 
6.     The Tenant believed that the Landlord’s evidence was
an attempt to circumvent the Act. The Tenant testified
that there were three occupants in the home at the time he moved into the rental unit. The Landlord
resided in the home at the start of the tenancy and slept on the couch in a
common area. The Tenant asserted
that the room the Landlord claimed as
her bedroom was ‘piled up to the ceiling’ with items. The Landlord regularly
sat at the kitchen table watching videos online or yelling during phone
conversations.
 
7.    
The Tenant further testified that the Landlord
resided in the home a few days at a time and used the kitchen for cooking. Although
the Tenant could not recall seeing food belonging to the Landlord in the
fridge, he admitted that she did share the kitchen.
 
Analysis
 
8.     Section 5 (i) of the Act provides that the Act does
not apply with respect to living accommodation
whose occupant or occupants are required to share a bathroom or kitchen
facility with the owner.
 
9.     There is no dispute that at the start of the tenancy,
the Tenant was not informed that the Landlord would be residing in the home but
having moved into the unit and finding the Landlord also in residence at the home,
the Tenant took no steps to protest the Landlord’s
presence in the home likely
because the Tenant was only entitled
to occupy one bedroom
and not the entire home.
 
10.  Based on all the evidence, I find that the Landlord
resided in the home at the start of the tenancy. The Landlord’s inconsistency as
to the date she moved from the upper level
into the basement unit was resolved
by the Tenant’s admission that she resided
in the home at the start of
the tenancy and shared the kitchen.
 
11.  Having found that the Landlord resided in the unit at
the commencement of the tenancy, the Landlord can rely on the exemption under
section 5 (i) of the Act. In the absence of evidence demonstrating that the
Landlord misled the Tenant, or attempted to modify the terms of the tenancy
agreement after the tenancy commenced, I find that the Act does not apply
to the relationship between the parties irrespective of the fact that the parties signed a standard form lease.
 
12.  Based on the foregoing, and in
ascertaining the real substance of the transactions and activities between the
parties in accordance with section 202 of the Act, I find that the Landlord has established, on a balance
of probabilities, that the tenancy
is exempt pursuant to section 5 (i) of the Act.
Therefore, I find that the Act does not apply to the residential accommodation
rented by the Tenant.




It is
ordered that:
 
1.   
The Tenant’s application is dismissed.
 
 
February 3, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Jitewa Edu
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

