Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-06
File number:	
SWT-45797-20

Citation:	Lam v Interrent, 2022 CanLII 52446 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jptwr>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: SWT-45797-20
 
 



In the
  matter of:


809, 955 WONDERLAND ROAD S LONDON ON
  N6K2X8


 




Between:


Jacqueline Lam
  Scott Tang


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Interrent


Landlord



 
 
 
Jacqueline Lam and Scott Tang (the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that Interrent (the 'Landlord') OR the Landlord's
superintendent OR the Landlord's agent harassed, obstructed, coerced,
threatened or interfered with them, entered the rental unit illegally and
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their household.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on October 25,
2021
 
The Tenant Jacqueline Lam and the Landlord’s Legal
Representative Daniel Abraham,
and Agent Michael Ager
attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
At the outset the
Landlord requested an adjournment as they needed more time to prepare for the
hearing. They acknowledged receiving the Tenant’s disclosure in time prior to this hearing.
The Representative also indicated he was engaged
in a different hearing room. I
stood this matter down to the afternoon.
 
2.    
The Tenant objected to the adjournment request, she was not feeling,
well and with all
the stress this was causing she preferred to proceed with the application.
 
3.    
Once the hearing was reconvened, I denied the request for an adjournment. The parties had
participated in a Case Management Hearing, and had exchanged disclosure and as
such should be ready to proceed. I left open the possibility that based on the
evidence, and submissions if a Landlord witness is not available for the
hearing, that this may be adjourned, otherwise it proceeded.




File Number: SWT-45797-20
 
4.    
The Landlords
representative raised a second preliminary issue, specifically, that the
limitation period would limit what can be raised by the Tenant. I confirmed that as the application had been filed September
2020, that the Tenant could raise issues
back to September 2019 and
that any allegations that predate that would not be considered.
 
5.    
The Landlords
representative raised a third preliminary issue, specifically that after
excluding the allegations that predate September 2019, that the application
lacked particulars regarding dates and times of incidents as such the Landlord could not know the case to meet in preparation. They explained that this had been raised
at the Case Management Hearing, and that
the Tenants had been afforded until March 31, 2021 to amend their application. The amendment did not provide any clarity,
rather it added additional allegations and a multiplicity of other issues and
complaints.
 
6.    
The Tenant replied that
they had understood the requirements to amend the application to include
everything. They had added new evidence and felt there was no need to refile
the application.
 
7.     I reviewed the application, and in
particular the additional document filed with the application as well as the
amendment filed with the Board. The
allegations are numerous; however, they lack specificity, rather it appears
that the Tenant wishes to recount all past grievances with the Landlord even
those well outside the limitation period.
There was otherwise insufficient detail regarding specific allegations such
that I was not satisfied that the application provided sufficient details
for the Landlord to be able
to properly respond.
 
8.    
The Tenants’
application filed with the Board and served on the Landlord, does not provide sufficient detail regarding the dates, times and individuals involved in the alleged
incidents.
 
9.    
There is insufficient detail
in the Tenants’ application to allow the Landlord to know the case being alleged against them.
 
10.  Proceeding
with the Tenants’
application would significantly prejudice the Landlord’s ability to defend itself in
this proceeding.
 
11.  The detail in the Tenants’
application does not meet the standard required
by the Divisional Court
ruling in Ball v. Metro Capital.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1. The Tenants'
application is dismissed.
 




January 6, 2022 Date Issued
South West-RO
150 Dufferin
Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor London ON N6A5N6



 
 
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

