Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-04
File number:	
SWT-43815-20_AM; 
 SWT-43827-20_AM

Citation:	Han v Peng, 2022 CanLII 63780 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jqppf>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
AMENDED ORDER
Order under Section 30
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
and Section 21.1 of the Statutory Powers Procedure Act
 
File Number: SWT-43815-20_AM
SWT-43827-20_AM
 
 
In the matter of:      376 ASKIN AVENUE
WINDSOR ON N9B2X2
 
Between:                  Yi Han                                                                                                                Tenant
 
 
and
 
Xin Peng                                                                                                              Landlord
 
 
 
Pursuant to a request filed by the Landlord on
January 7, 2022, the order is clerically amended as below. Because the
amendment resulted in a substantial change to the amount owing, the date for payment
has also been amended. The amendments have been
bolded and underlined for ease of reference.
 
Yi Han (the 'Tenant') applied
for an order determining that Xin Peng (the 'Landlord') failed to meet the
Landlord’s maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the 'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety, housing or maintenance
standards.
 
The Tenant also applied for an
order determining that the Landlords, the Landlord’s superintendent or the Landlord’s agent substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or by a member of the Tenant's
household.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 4, 2021.
 
The Tenant and the Landlord, Xin Peng, attended
the hearing. Mengying
Xi also attended
the hearing when she provided evidence on behalf of the Tenant. The
Tenant spoke with Duty Counsel prior to the start of the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.       
The Tenant commenced two applications. An application for maintenance and repair (the ‘T6 Application’) and an application
alleging substantial interference with her rights or interests (the ‘T2
Application’). The applications were heard together.
 
Preliminary Issues




 
2.       
At the outset of the hearing the parties confirmed Deandra
Hsieh is the property manager of the Landlord and is not a
Landlord. As a result, she is removed as a party Landlord to the applications.
 
3.       
The Tenant delivered amended
copies of her T2 and T6 Applications to the Board and Landlord approximately two and a half
weeks in advance of the hearing.
 
4.       
The Tenant’s amendments focus on remedies.
The Tenant advised
she was not aware of all the compensation she could claim
until after she received legal advice. The Landlord did not object to the
Tenant amending her applications.
 
5.       
I was satisfied the amendments
were appropriate, did not prejudice the Landlord and were consistent with a fair and expeditious process. As a result, hearing
of the T2 and T6
Applications proceeded in their amended forms.
 
6.       
That said, the Tenant’s
amendments to her T2 Application included claims that were not recoverable either due to the nature
of the claim or because the limitation period had passed. These issues were
addressed during the course of the hearing.
 
Non-Recoverable Claims
 
7.       
The Tenant claimed for a future
anticipated cost of filing with Small Claims
Court. Filing fees in other
courts are not properly recoverable in a proceeding before the Board. Further,
this was not an expense that had been incurred by the Tenant.
 
8.       
The Tenant also claimed
pre-judgment interest. Pre-judgment interest is not recoverable
in a proceeding before the Board.
 
9.       
In her amendments to the T2 Application,
the Tenant asserted a new claim regarding use of the kitchen and the original state of the residential
complex. Section 29(2) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) provides no tenant’s application may be made for substantial interference more
than one year after the day the alleged conduct occurred.
 
10.   
The Tenant’s claim regarding the
kitchen use covers the period from January 2020 to June 2020. As a result, to
accord with section 29(2) of the Act, this Tenant’s claim would usually have to have been filed
by June 2021. However, limitation periods in Ontario
were generally suspended from March 16, until September 14, 2020. As a
result, the Tenant had until September 14, 2021, to file their claim.
 
11.   
The Tenant’s amended T2
Application was delivered on September 16, 2021. Therefore, even accounting for a suspension of limitation periods,
the Tenant’s claim was filed
out of time. Why the Tenant
missed the limitation period is not relevant to this determination. As a result, this claim was not allowed to proceed.
 
Return of Rent




 
12.   
The Tenant claimed the return of her rent deposit as a remedy in her amended T2 and T6 Applications.
 
13.    On its face, this appears to be a distinct claim that
the Landlord has illegally retained funds. However, the Tenant’s original T6
sought termination of her tenancy on July 1, 2020 and the application of her rent deposit to June 2020. The Landlord
had notice of the
Tenant’s claim for the return of her rent deposit and consented to the Tenant’s
amendments. The parties did not
dispute when or why the Tenant left. As a result,
I have considered this as a
request for 100% abatement for rent for the month after which the Tenant gave
up possession of the rental unit.
 
Background
 
14.   
The Tenant’s lease for the
rental unit began on January
1, 2020. The Tenant moved
into the rental unit early in December 2019. The rental unit was a room
on the third floor of a house with some shared areas including the
kitchen.
 
15.    There are three main issues
under both the Tenant’s T2 and T6 Application as follows:
a.     
Pests: rats and bugs in her room;
b.     
Inadequate smoke alarms; and
c.     
An attempt to illegally
increase the rent.
 
16.    There was extensive
evidence presented by the Tenant.
These reasons focus
on the evidence most relevant
to the matters in issue.
 
Pests: Bugs and Rats
 
17.    The Tenant alleges
there were pests, in particular bugs and rats, in her rental unit.
This was claimed both as a maintenance issue under her T6 Application
and as substantial interference with her rights in her T2 Application.
 
Bugs
 
18.   
The Tenant testified she advised
the Property Manager there were bugs in her room on
multiple occasions including in person when she first
moved in and through subsequent messages. The WeChat messages
provided regarding bugs were sent on
February 10, 2020 and then again on
May 23, 2020.
 
19.    The Tenant testified bugs were coming out of the
cracks in the walls, that there were flying bugs and ants, and once a spider dropped
onto her food. The Tenant
also testified when she moved
into the rental unit there were dead bugs in a hanging ceiling lamp in her
rental unit; however, she did not realise these were bugs until many months
later.
 
20.    A friend of the Tenant’s
was called to testify. She testified she attended the rental unit a
total of three times – each time during the day. The Tenant’s friend testified
she was present and saw a spider drop on the Tenant’s food. She estimated she
saw spiders twice, multi-legged bugs three times, and said she frequently saw
flying bugs. She testified they checked the window screen and these were in
good condition.




 
 
21.   
The Tenant testified the Property
Manager advised the Tenant not to keep food in her room and she was accused of
opening her windows. The Tenant testified her windows had screens
on them and she stored
her food in sealed containers. The Tenant advised you could see bugs on the video of her room after she moved
out when all the windows were closed. The Tenant testified
it was not until May 2020 that the Property Manager provided the Tenant with
pesticide.
 
22.   
The Landlord did not dispute
there were some bugs in the
rental unit but testified that to catch a few bugs over a few days is normal.
The Landlord did not call any witness to the
extent of bugs in the rental unit.
 
23.    Based on the uncontested evidence of the Tenant and
her friend, I find there were bugs in the rental
unit. The Landlord
testified he did not hire a professional to inspect the rental unit in response to the Tenant’s
complaints. The Property Manager’s response to the Tenant such as to ensure
that food was sealed properly was, in and of itself, not unreasonable. However, I find
this should have been
accompanied by other actions or at least investigations. The provision of a bottle of pesticide
in May 2020 was insufficient.
 
Rats
 
24.   
The Tenant testified she saw rat droppings in the attic
and provided a picture of gnawed
plastic wrap around food she had stored in her room. She said she heard rats at
night and was awoken by the sound of them. On
cross-examination she
admitted she did not see a rat or mouse and said
this was because it was dark at night. The Tenant admitted her friend never saw a rodent.
 
25.    The Tenant admitted the Property Manager initially
responded to her complaints about rats. The Tenant complained on February 13,
2020 and the Landlord testified the Property Manager provided her with rat bait
on February 14, 2020. The Landlord testified more bait was provided on March 4,
2020. When the Tenant complained the poison was not working, the Tenant
testified the Property
Manager would not provide anymore
poison because she said she ran out of poison.
 
26.   
The Tenant objects that when she contacted the Landlord he told her to speak with the Property Manager. I find this was
appropriate and was not a violation of the Tenant’s rights.
 
27.    However, the Tenant’s
WeChat messages to the Landlord
also mention noises, and the discovery of a gnawing
hole after the failure of the
rodenticide. The Landlord
testified no further action
was taken as the candy was only bitten one time and she heard some noises. He
said no rats were seen there and the Tenant never had anything bitten after that.
 
28.    With respect to the rat droppings, the Landlord advised
the Property Manager
never mentioned seeing this.
This is not the same as the
Property Manager indicating she




 
looked and did not find any droppings. As mentioned above,
the Property Manager
did not testify.
 
29.    The Landlord said he took no further
measures as there was no evidence there were rats in her room and admitted he did not
hire a professional to inspect the rental unit in response to the Tenant’s
complaints.
 
30.    I find it more likely
than not that there was some form of rodent in the Tenant’s rental
unit.
 
31.   
I
find the Landlord
breached their obligations to maintain the rental unit in a good state
of repair fit for habitation given the
presence of rodents
and bugs, and, in particular through their failure to properly investigate the complaints of
bugs and rats, substantially interfered with the Tenant’s right to quiet
enjoyment of the rental unit.
 
Failure to Replace Batteries in Smoke Alarms
 
32.    The Tenant claims that on May 24, 2020, the Property
Manager removed and did not immediately replace the batteries from a smoke alarm at the base of the stairs on the first floor.
 
33.   
The Tenant raised this as a concern
with the Property
Manager via message
on May 27, 2020 at 2:56 p.m. The Property Manager
responded the following day at 11:00
a.m. and advised the Tenant
there was another one and not to worry.
 
34.    The Landlord testified he installed a hardwired system
of smoke in the residential complex in 2018. He provided a certificate of
inspection regarding these smoke alarms from
2018. He testified
that although this was all that was required, he did not remove the battery-operated smoke alarms as it
was reasoned two systems were always better than one. The Tenant was not aware
of the hardwired system.
 
35.    I find the Property Manager
responded to the Tenant’s inquiry
about the smoke alarm in a reasonable time
frame and provided information about why the Tenant need not worry. The Tenant
provided no evidence the Landlord did not meet any health or safety codes.
 
36.   
The Tenant also admitted
that she had a smoke
alarm in the rental unit and at one point heard the kitchen smoke alarm in her
room.
 
37.    I find the Landlord was not
in breach of his obligations
regarding smoke alarms. I also find
the Landlord did not substantially interfere with the Tenant’s rights. The
Tenant’s claims regarding a failure to replace batteries in a smoke alarm on both her T2 and T6
Applications are dismissed.
 
Request to Raise Rent
 
38.    The Tenant’s T2 Application claimed
substantial interference due to the Landlord’s
attempt to illegally increase her rent.




 
39.   
The Tenant provided a copy of a
text message from the Property Manager where she was asked to pay $150 more in
rent. This was apparently motivated by a question of whether the Tenant had a friend
living with her. The Tenant
immediately refused and sent
multiple messages. The Property Manager never asked again. The Landlord agrees
an additional amount was requested by the Property Manager; however, this was
never charged.
 
40.    I find the Property Manager
was not entitled
to request an increase in rent under the Act. However, I find that a single text
message with an immediate repudiation and no subsequent request does not amount
to substantial interference. This aspect of the Tenant’s claim is also
dismissed.
 
Remedies
 
41.    The Tenant claims the rent she paid for a new place to
live as a result of leaving the rental unit early, early termination of the tenancy,
the return of rent charged
after she left the rental unit, a 15% abatement for
the months she lived at the rental unit, and out of pocket expenses for
medicine.
 
42.   
The Tenant alleges her mental
health was destroyed by the Landlord’s shifting of responsibility and blame
onto her and the Landlord’s failure to take action regarding the pests. I have
found the Landlord’s statements to the Tenant in terms of steps she should take to mitigate any pest issues were reasonable and I do not find these were a shifting of blame.
 
43.    The Tenants also claims the Landlord’s and Property
Manager’s behaviour caused her significant anxiety, that she had a panic attack
and that this interfered with her studies. The
Tenant claims she moved out of the rental unit at the suggestion of her therapist
and an emergency counsellor. The Landlord had no evidence to dispute
this impact on the Tenant’s mental state.
 
44.   
In addition to the Tenant’s oral
testimony, the Tenant relied on letters reflective of the content of
counselling sessions. The authors of these letters were not called to testify
at the hearing. I find these letters are at best contemporaneous records
tendered to support the Tenant’s credibility and I
afford them less weight.
 
45.    I find it more likely than not that on
May 30, 2020, the
Tenant moved out of the rental
unit as a result of the Landlord’s improper conduct. The Tenant provided
evidence she paid
$460.00 to live in different accommodation for the month of June 2020. I award the Tenant this amount.
 
46.    While the Tenant
stopped living at the rental
unit on May 30, 2020, she kept some
belongings in the room and paid June’s rent. The Tenant therefore maintained
possession of the rental unit until June 30, 2020.




 
47.   
The Tenant’s lease ran until August
31, 2020. The Landlord testified they already let the
Tenant out of the lease one month early. I infer he meant he did not charge the
Tenant rent for July or August but merely kept her rent deposit.
 
48.    As discussed above
I have found the Landlord
substantially interfered with the Tenant’s rights and that she moved out
due to these events. As a result, I find the tenancy was terminated as of June 30, 2020. I order the Landlord to return the rent applied after this date to the Tenant.
 
49.   
The Tenant also sought an
abatement of 15% due to the presence of bugs and rats and the effect on her mental health
which led her to feel she had to move out on the advice
of her medical professionals. I have found that the Tenant’s rights were
substantially interfered with. However, the 15% abatement request originally
also included the Tenant’s claim regarding an inability to use the kitchen
which I have held was not recoverable.
 
50.   
The Property Manager did not
provide any treatment for bugs for a few months but was initially responsive to
the Tenant’s complaints about rats. I award a 5% abatement for three and a half months. This represents the time where
I held the Landlord should have conducted further
investigations being February 10, 2020, to when the Tenant left the rental unit
on May 30, 2020, for a total of $87.50.
 
51.    Finally, the Tenant
claims out of pocket expenses
for medication in the amount
of $11.12. She testified the
medicine was to help her sleep and for her anxiety. I find it more likely than
not that the Tenant’s medication expenses arose as a result of the Landlord’s
conduct. I award the Tenant this amount.
 
Costs
 
52.    The application fee for a proceeding will generally be awarded to the successful party. As the Tenant
was partially successful she is entitled to the filing fees of her
applications.
 
53.    The Tenant also claimed her out of pocket expenses for
obtaining evidence for the hearing including medical
records and translating WeChat messages with the Landlord and Property Manager.
 
54.    Costs for expenses incurred in the preparation for a
hearing are generally only awarded to a successful party where the other party
has engaged in unreasonable conduct during the proceeding. I saw no
evidence that the Landlord’s conduct during the proceeding caused undue expense or unreasonable delay
to the Tenant. The request
for these costs is denied.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.       
The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenant is terminated effective June 30, 2020.




 
2.       
The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant the sum of $1,058.62. This amount represents
$500.00 for rent applied to the
month of July 2020, $460.00 for rent the Tenant paid for an alternative place to live in June 2020, $87.50
for a 5% rent abatement
for three and a
half months, and $11.12 for the costs of medication.
 
3.       
The Landlord shall also pay the Tenant $90.00
for the cost of filing
the applications.
 
4.         
The total amount the Landlord owes the Tenant
is $1,148.62.
 
5.       
The Landlord shall pay the Tenant
the full amount
owing by January
28, 2022.
 
6.       
If the Landlord does not pay the
Tenant the full amount owing by January 28, 2022 the Landlord will owe interest.
This will be simple interest
calculated from January 29, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the outstanding balance.
 
7.       
The Tenant has the right, at any time, to collect
the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
 








 
 
Rebecca Case




 


January 4, 2022
Date Issued
 
January 17, 2022 Date Amended
Member, Landlord and Tenant
Board
 
South West-RO
150 Dufferin Avenue, Suite 400, 4th Floor
London ON N6A5N6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

