Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-23
File number:	
TEL-17006-21

Citation:	Roberge v Hall, 2022 CanLII 128610 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jv589>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-17006-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


B-BASEMENT, 556 COUNTY
ROAD 28 ROAD BAILIEBORO ON K0L1B0


 




Between:


Stewart Roberge
  Sheri Robinson


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Samantha Hall Steven Emmorey


Tenants



 
 
 
Stewart
Roberge and Sheri Robinson (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict Samantha Hall and Steven Emmorey (the 'Tenants') because
they, another occupant of the rental unit or someone they permitted in the
residential complex have wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the
premises. The Landlords also applied for an order requiring the Tenants to
compensate the Landlords for the damage.
 
This application was heard by video conference on January 11, 2022.
 
The Landlord,
Sheri Robinson, and the Tenants, Samantha Hall and Steven Emmorey, attended the
hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.   
For the reasons that follow, I
find that the Tenants committed undue damage to the residential unit and as a
result shall pay the Landlord $179.00 for the cost of the bedroom door.
 
Notices of Termination
 
2.    The Landlord served the Tenants with an N5 Notice to
End your Tenancy for wilfully or negligently damaging the rental unit or the
residential complex (‘first N5 Notice’) on November 11, 2020. The reason for the first N5 Notice was
that the Tenants were alleged to have damaged the screen door at the entrance
of the rental unit. The Landlord is
seeking the costs for the damaged door in the amount of $259.00. This is a first notice which can be voided
by repairing the damage or paying the Landlord the amount required to repair or
replace the damaged door. The voiding
period for this first N5 Notice ran from October 24, 2020 to October 30, 2020. The Tenants did not provide any monies to
the Landlord during this voiding period, nor did they replace the screen door.




 
3.   
The Landlord served the Tenants
with another N5 Notice to End your Tenancy for wilfully or negligently damaging
the rental unit or residential complex (‘second N5 Notice’) on May 11, 2021. The reason for the second N5 Notice was
that the rental unit was not clean and had an extremely bad smell. The Tenants were alleged to have damaged
the bedroom door in the rental unit and have destroyed the grass by driving
recklessly at the front of the residential complex. The Landlord is seeking damages in the amount of $979.00.
 
Damages – first N5 Notice
 
4.    The Landlord testified that, on November 16, 2020 at
7:00 p.m., she witnessed the Tenant (SE) remove a big screen television from
the rear hatch of his vehicle. The
Landlord submitted that it was windy, so she attempted to assist the SE in carrying the television. SE stated
he did not require any assistance and as SE opened the screen door, it flung
open ripping the hinge on the door frame.
 
5.    The Tenant (SH) testified that they did purchase a big
screen television on November 16, 2020 however she stated that they arrived
home at 11:00 p.m. not at 7:00 p.m. as the Landlord indicated. SH testified
that the Landlord was not outside when they returned home. She further testified that the television
had a 60” screen and she assisted SE with carrying the television into the
rental unit as it was too large to be carried by one person. SH submitted that
the screen door was previously damaged, and this damage was caused by the
Landlord slamming the door after fighting with the other Landlord.
 
 
Damages – second N5 Notice
 
6.   
The Landlord testified that, on
May 13, 2021 at 6:00 p.m., she entered the rental unit and discovered a hole in
the middle of the bedroom door. The
Landlord made no submissions about the state of the unit.
 
7.    SH admitted that they had damaged the bedroom door. SH testified that she spoke to the
Landlord and offered to fix the door. She
further testified that they did fix the door and advised the Landlord, who
accepted the repair.
 
 
Landlord’s L2 Application
 
8.    The Landlords’ application claims compensation for
undue damage to the rental unit. The
application states that the Tenants have damaged the screen door, the unit
needs to be cleaned and repainted, the bedroom door needs to be replaced,
the gravel on the driveway needs to be replaced and the
grass at the residential complex needs to be resodded. The Landlords are seeking $1,238.00 in compensation.




 
Screen Door
 
9.   
At the hearing, the Landlords submitted
three photographs of the screen door. It
is apparent from these photographs that the hinge is bent, and the door frame
partially cracked. The Landlord submitted no photographs of the screen door
itself and therefore I am not satisfied that the screen door itself needs to be
replaced. The Landlords has not
established that the Tenants caused the damage. The Landlord submitted that she was witness to the event however
the Tenants deny this. thus I decline to award compensation for these alleged
damages.
 
Cleanliness of Unit
 
10. The Landlords did
not make any submissions with
respect to the state of cleanliness of
the rental unit. There was no evidence that the Tenants negligently or wilfully
unduly damaged the unit due to its lack of cleanliness. The Landlords failed to
establish a claim under this ground.
 
The Bedroom Door
 
11. The Landlord submitted two photographs of the bedroom door showing a
crack in the centre of the door. She
also submitted a screenshot of a bedroom door from the Home Depot website indicating
the cost to replace the door would be $179.00.
The Tenants did not submit any evidence to support their claim that they
fixed the bedroom door without which I unable to determine if the door has been
fixed.
 
12. The Landlord testified that the Tenants damaged this door. The Tenants
did not challenge the Landlord’s contention and admitted causing the damage. I therefore accept the Landlord’s evidence
and find that $179.00 represents the reasonable cost to repair the damage.
 
Other Alleged Damage
 
13. The Landlord submitted photographs of the driveway and
grass areas at the residential complex as evidence
of the damaged areas. These photographs
indicate that the property has a
gravel driveway and some areas of grass around the property. The Landlord testified that she has
witnessed the Tenants driving recklessly in and out of the property, however no
other documentary or corroborative evidence was admitted by the Landlord in
support of her claim.
 
14. The Tenants deny driving recklessly. They testified
that the areas of the driveway and grass that look damaged is simply from wear
and tear.
 
15. The rental unit is in a rural area. The photographs
were taken in the early spring and thus the grass had not fully grown. In my
view it is expected that some areas will be muddy. In any event I am not
satisfied based on the evidence before me that the Landlords have established
that the Tenants negligently or wilfully unduly damaged the grass or driveway.




 
In my view the damage is more akin to wear and tear, for which the Tenants
bear no responsibility.
 
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.    The Landlords’ claims of damages in the application to
the screen door, damage to the driveway and grass areas, and the unclean state
of the unit are dismissed.
 
2.    On or before March 15, 2022, the Tenants shall pay to
the Landlord $179.00, which represents the reasonable cost of replacing the
bedroom door.
 
3.    Should the Tenants fail to make the payment in
accordance with paragraph 1, the balance owing under paragraph 1 of this order
shall become payable on the day following the date of default. The monies owed shall bear interest at the
post-judgment interest rate determined under subsection 207(7) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006.
 
 
 
February 23, 2022
Date Issued
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

