Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-26
File number:	
TEL-19283-21

Citation:	Valiant Rental Properties Limited v Starr, 2022 CanLII 81407 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrt6m>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-19283-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


412, 400 GRENFELL STREET OSHAWA ON L1J4W7


 




Between:


Valiant Rental
Properties Limited


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Catherine Starr


Tenant



 
 
 
 
Valiant Rental Properties Limited
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Catherine
Starr (the 'Tenant')
because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or
a person the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has seriously impaired
the safety of any person. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day
the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by video conference on January 11, 2022.
 
Only the Landlord’s agent,
M. Gammon, and the Landlord’s legal representative, V. Orlandi,
attended the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Tenant did not attend
the hearing, scheduled for 9 a.m. I waited
until after 2:35 p.m.,
and then I proceeded to hear the matter on an uncontested basis.
 
2.     The Landlord served
the Tenant with an N7 notice of termination alleging
that her occupant had created
a serious impairment to safety on the residential complex.
 
3.    
The Landlord’s witness, M. Gammon
(MG), said that she and other superintendent’s of the Landlord had a group
meeting on September 1, 2021. She
said that while they were at the meeting, they received a message from an assistant
superintendent who remained on the site of the residential
complex, saying that the garbage bins were on fire.
 
4.     MG said that the assistant superintendent worked
quickly to put out the fire. She said
that she saw the incident on security footage,
and she identified the person
who set the fire as “Robbie”, an occupant of the rental
unit. MG submitted
into evidence photos
and




 
video footage of a person smoking
at the back of the residential complex,
and this person setting the fire with their
cigarette butts.
 
5.     MG said that there is a history of problems
with the occupant of the rental unit, known as “Robbie”. She said that he and the Tenant have been told repeatedly that Robbie should not smoke at the rear of the
building near the garbage bins, because it is a fire code violation to smoke in
that location near combustible materials.
 
6.     MG submitted into evidence a letter, dated August 19, 2021, to the Tenant,
reminding her that she is
responsible for her occupant. Her
occupant Robbie had been observed on a number of occasions smoking near the
recycling bins. The letter states
that there have been several complaints about Robbie smoking and burning holes
in the recycle bins. The Tenant is asked to ensure that Robbie smokes more than
30 feet from the building, as required by the fire code.
 
7.    
MG said that Robbie was observed
on a further occasion, on October 19, 2021, butting out cigarettes near new garbage bins. She said that he was seen putting cigarettes on the new bins. MG
said that Robbie was also seen smoking near recycle bins again on December 21,
2021.
 
8.     MG said that when the garbage bin was on fire there
was smoke going up to at least the second floor units.
She said that if this fire had progressed further
it could have caused a lot of damage to property and created
great danger to any one on the residential complex.
 
9.    
MG said that the Tenant has already paid for any damage caused by Robbie.
She also said that the Tenant
has informed the Landlord that Robbie is moving out.
 
10.  The Landlord submits
that the Tenant’s
occupant has caused,
and he continues to cause, a fire hazard on site. It submits that the occupant has already
caused a fire on the site, and that
this fire did not create worse damage than
it did only due to the quick work of
the assistant superintendent. The
Landlord submits that the Tenant’s occupant has created a serious impairment to safety of persons on the residential
complex.
 
11.  The Landlord requests
a conditional order requiring the Tenant to prohibit Robbie from
attending the rental unit or the residential complex.
 
 
Reasons and Analysis:
 
12.  Section 66 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’)
provides that a landlord may give a tenant notice of termination if an act or omission of the tenant,
another occupant of the rental unit or a person permitted
in the residential complex by the tenant seriously impairs or has seriously
impaired the safety of any person, and this act or omission occurs in the
residential complex.
 
13.  The impairment to safety must be serious
and consequential, not trivial.




 
 
 
14.  The Landlord’s uncontested evidence is that the
Tenant’s occupant was frequently seen smoking in a location that was against
the fire regulations as it was too close to the building, and it was too near
to combustible material. The matter
was brought to the attention of the Tenant, but her occupant continued to smoke
in the prohibited location. His behaviour caused
a fire, and it was only luck and fortune
that led to this fire being put out quickly. Nevertheless, the Tenant’s occupant, Robbie, continued to smoke
in the same place, and caused further damage to the Landlord’s property, after
the fire.
 
15.  Therefore, I find that the Tenant’s occupant not only
caused a serious impairment to safety to people
on the residential complex by setting a fire as a result
of his negligent behaviour, but he continued to do so by repeating his
behaviour even after the fire.
 
16.  By smoking in a negligent manner, and creating a
repeated risk of fire, the Tenant, another occupant of the rental
unit or a person permitted
in the residential complex by the
Tenant has seriously impaired, and continues to seriously impair the safety of
other persons and this act or omission occurred in the residential complex.
 
17.  The Landlord’s witness said that the Landlord has
received communication from the Tenant saying that Robbie has vacated her
rental unit. Therefore, the Landlord
is not requesting eviction, but rather a conditional order ensuring that Robbie is not permitted to attend the rental unit or the residential complex. Considering Robbie’s past behaviour, I
find that it is reasonable to prohibit him from attending the residential
complex to ensure that he can no longer impair safety of persons on the
residential complex.
 
18.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief
from eviction subject to the conditions set out in this order pursuant to
subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1) of the Act.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Tenant shall not permit
her occupant known as Robbie,
to attend the rental unit, nor
shall the Tenant permit Robbie access to the residential complex.
 
2.     The Tenant shall ensure that neither she, nor any of her guests or occupants, smokes near the Landlord’s garbage or
recycle bins.
 
3.     If the Tenant fails to comply
with paragraphs one and two of this order, the Landlord may apply under section 78 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’), within 30 days of the breach, without
notice to the Tenant, for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the
Tenant.
 
4.     The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing the application.




 
5.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before January
31, 2022, the Tenant will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from February 1, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
 
 
January 26, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

