Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-23
File number:	
TEL-17359-21-RV

Citation:	Adengbenro v Etafo, 2022 CanLII 128582 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jv58c>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 21.2 of the
Statutory Powers Procedure
Act
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-17359-21-RV
 
 
In the matter
of:      MAIN FLOOR, 86 SEWARD CRESCENT
AJAX ON L1Z1Y9
 
Between:                  Adenike Adengbenro                                                                                   Landlord
 
 
and
 
Edward Etafo                                                                                                                  Tenant
 
 
Review Order
 
 
Edward Etafo (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Adenike Adengbenro (the 'Tenant') because
the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or another
tenant; because the Landlord requires possession of the rental unit for the
purpose of residential occupation. The Landlord also claimed compensation for
each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was resolved
by order TEL-17359-21 issued on August 4, 2021.
 
On October
7, 2021, the Tenant requested a review of the order and
that the order be stayed until
the request to review the order is resolved.
 
On October
8, 2021, interim
order TEL-17359-21 -IN was issued,
staying the order issued on August 4, 2021.
 
The review request was heard by video conference on December 21, 2021. However,
on further deliberation after
the hearing I decided to reconvene the hearing for the below reasons.
 
The Landlord, the Landlord’s
legal representative, Jeff Shabes, the Tenant, and the Tenant’s legal representative, Rajan Mahavalirajan, attended
the review hearing
on December 21, 2021
and the reconvened review hearing on January 25, 2022.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
Paragraphs 2 to 6, below, set out the procedural history
in the December 21, 2022 hearing.




 
 
 
2.    
It is undisputed that the rental unit is a house and that
the application and the termination
notice (the N12) that gave rise to the application characterized the rental
unit as the “main
floor” of the house.
 
3.     Mr, Mahavalirajan testified that this
mischaracterization constitutes a fatal error in the originating documents, that the review request should
be granted and that the application
should be dismissed for this reason. Besides identifying the
mischaracterization, he did not explain why, in the Tenant’s view, the
mischaracterization constitutes a fatal error.
 
4.     Mr. Shabes opposed
the review request,
testifying that the unit was correctly identified as the “main floor” for the purpose of the application because
the Tenant receives her mail on the main floor. I do not accept this argument given Mr. Shabes’
admission that the unit
is, in fact, the entire house.
 
5.    
However, it is undisputed that the Tenant was present at the original
hearing in response to the Notice of Hearing. As such, I am satisfied
that the mischaracterization of her address in the originating documents did
not interfere with her opportunity to attend that hearing. It is also
uncontested that the Tenant did not raise this issue at that hearing. While she
testified that she did not do so because she was self-represented at the time,
she did not explain whether or how her ability to raise this very basic and
strictly factual concern may have
been negatively impacted by the absence of counsel. As well, though she also
testified to having been “confused” during the original hearing, other than by
stating that at that time she was focused on finding alternate
housing, she did not explain the basis or the extent of this confusion or how, if at all, it specifically
impacted her ability to raise this
issue.
 
6.     At the review hearing I orally ruled that while it is
clear that the originating documents erred by wrongly styling the rental unit
as consisting of the main floor of the house, only, there is an insufficient basis to conclude
that this inaccuracy constitutes a serous error as this term is generally applied in the
relevant Board jurisprudence. Specifically, I orally ruled that the Tenant did
not demonstrate that she was deprived of the opportunity to raise this issue at
the original hearing or that she could not have become aware of this issue in
time for that hearing by the exercise of reasonable diligence. Moreover, the
Board record does not show the absence of a rational connection between the
evidence at the original hearing and the presiding adjudicator’s finding of
fact with respect to the unit’s address. Especially given that the Board does
not intend for parties to advance
their case in stages, in the
circumstances of this case, I contemplated that the Tenant’s possible regret that she did not raise an issue at first instance
that could reasonably have been advanced at that time might generally be an
insufficient foundation for a review request. As such, I orally ruled against
the review request.
 
7.     However, as set out in my interim order, on further
deliberation after the hearing I also considered the negative implications of an order that wrongly
identifies the address of the
subject unit. For example, the Landlord’s ability to enforce
eviction for the rental unit (i.e., the entire house) may be negatively impacted. As such, out of an abundance of caution I decided to reconvene the review
hearing to continue the exploration of possible serious error or to otherwise
address the issue of the wrongly named rental unit.




 
8.    
At the reconvened review hearing,
the parties mutually agreed that the Tenant vacated the unit on September 9,
2021, which obviated possible concerns with respect to the enforceability of
the order. Nether party made submissions concerning their respective positions
on the merits of the review request beyond those raised at the December 21,
2021, hearing. As such, as a practical
matter, a determined that there was an insufficient basis to resile from my oral
ruling and reasoning at the December 21, 2021 hearing, which is confirmed in
this order.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The request
to review order TEL-17359-21 issued
on August 4, 2021 is
denied. The order is confirmed and remains unchanged.
 
2.    
The interim
order issued on October 8, 2021
is cancelled. The stay of order TEL-17359- 21 is lifted.
 
 
February 23, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Sean Henry
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland
Avenue, Unit 2 Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

