Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-02
File number:	
TEL-19333-21-SA

Citation:	10383023 Ontario Inc. v Snyder, 2022 CanLII 87296 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2ss>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 77
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-19333-21-SA
 
 
In the matter of:      3, 27 DUNDAS
STREET EAST
TRENTON ON K8V1K6
 
Between:                  10383023 Ontario Inc.                                                                                 Landlord
 
 
and
 
Dugles Snyder                                                                                                                 Tenant
 
 
 
10383023 Ontario Inc. (the
'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Dugles
Snyder (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant entered into an agreement to terminate
the tenancy. That application was resolved by order TEL-19333-21 issued on September 23, 2021.
 
The Tenant filed a motion to set aside the
order on November 24, 2021. A request to extend the time for filing the motion was granted
by the Board.
 
This application was heard
by video conference on January 21, 2022.
 
The Landlord’s Agent Eric Vorich, the Landlord's Legal Representative Lorrie McCullough, and the Tenant attended the hearing. The
Tenant was assisted by Duty Counsel Erin MacLellan.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.       
The Landlord applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenant because the Tenant entered into an
agreement to terminate the tenancy.
 
2.       
The Landlord filed a declaration
signed by Inderjit Kandola (I.K.) on September 7, 2021, stating that on August
7, 2021 he or she signed the N11 Agreement
to End the Tenancy.
 
3.       
The Landlord’s L3 application was resolved by order TEL-19333-21 issued on September 23, 2021, which terminated the
tenancy.
 
4.       
The Tenant filed a motion to set aside the order. The Tenant claims that not only did the Landlord’s agent misrepresent the type of form that the Tenant
signed, but the otherwise
binding agreement was unconscionable because, at the time, the Landlord’s agent
took unfair advantage of him.
 
The Evidence of the Tenant




 
5.       
The Tenant D.S. is 65 yrs. old and has been residing
in the rental unit since November 1, 2020. He testified that he cannot read
well. At the time of the signing of the N11 Agreement, he was grieving over the
recent deaths of his spouse and his sister-in-law.
 
6.       
D.S. testified that the
residential building was sold to the new Landlord in July 2021. On August 7, 2021 a male person and a female person
arrived at his rental unit to perform an inspection. The male changed
some light bulbs and installed smoke detectors within the unit. D.S. stated
that he did not know at the time that the woman was the personal Landlord
Hashini Piyasena (H.P.), or that the man was her spouse, E.V..
 
7.       
D.S. had installed a washer
and dryer in the unit, which the previous landlord
allowed. He testified that
E.V. informed him that day that he could not use the washer and dryer unless the Landlord agreed.
If so, D.S. would have pay $60.00 per month to the
Landlord as an additional cost. D.S. became frustrated. He told E.V.
that he would move out, meaning if he couldn’t use the appliances, then he did
not want to reside there anymore. He testified that his comment “just slipped
out.”
 
8.       
After E.V. finished the
maintenance, he said, E.V. handed him a form to him to sign. He testified that E.V. did not read through the content with him but told him that the form was simply to confirm that the work had
been completed in the unit that day.
 
9.       
D.S. did not, and could
not, read the form
but trusted E.V. and signed it the form which he
then gave back to E.V..
 
10.   
The next day D.S. received a
letter in the mail from the Landlord's Legal Representative, which he took over to his neighbour R. to read to
him. The letter
stated that if D.S. wanted to use the washer and dryer he
would have to start paying $65.00 per month extra to the Landlord.
 
11.    D.S. only realized that he had signed an N11 Agreement
to End the Tenancy after he received the eviction
notice in the mail in October 2021. D.S. had his neighbour
R. read the content of the
order to him.
 
12.    He testified that R. told him that the Landlord had
done the same thing to him. R. could confirm,
he said, that R. had been provided
with a form from the Landlord’s agent after an inspection of his unit, and that he had
been asked by the agent to sign the form to acknowledge that work had been
done in the unit that day. D.S. was unable to present R. as a
witness.
 
13.    The day after
receiving the order,
D.S. contacted the Landlord's Legal Representative to dispute that he had agreed to
terminate the tenancy and move out, and to say that he could not move out by
the date on the eviction order.
 
14.    He testified that E.V. called him back some days
later. During that conversation, he said, he informed E.V. that his government
income was being reduced and he would be homeless. E.V. told D.S. that the Landlord didn’t
want to see him homeless
and offered to meet with him in November to discuss
lowering the rent. The Landlord never contacted




 
him after that. The Tenant consequently sought legal assistance from the legal aid clinic and on November 30, 2021, filed
the motion to set aside the order.
 
15.    D.S. was adamant
that he never agreed to end the tenancy.
 
The Evidence of the Landlord
 
16.   
The Landlord’s witness E.V.
testified that he is the spouse of the Landlord H.P., who is the owner of the building
and one of the directors of 10383023 Ontario
Inc.. The Landlord purchased the building in July
2021. E.V. has construction experience and performs maintenance around the
building.
 
17.    After the Landlord took possession of the building
E.V. arranged initial ‘meet and greet’ visits in July 2021 with all of the tenants,
including with D.S.. These visits included brief inspections of the units. He
recalls meeting D.S., and that during a brief interaction D.S. told him he would potentially be looking to vacate the unit in the near future. No date was provided. E.V. described it as a
“pass-by’ comment.
 
18.     E.V. and H.P. attended the Tenant’s unit on August 7,
2021. E.V. was performing minor maintenance
in all of the units that day as needed. He testified that he did not reintroduce himself or H.P. to D.S. at the
time because they had met once before and he did not feel it was necessary.
H.P. waited by the Tenant’s door.
 
19.    He added a smoke detector and changed light bulbs to
energy efficient models in the Tenant’s unit. He saw the washer and dryer. E.V. stated that he knew that D.S.’s lease
required him to have the Landlord’s permission to operate the appliances.
 
20.    E.V. testified that D.S. “was more present at that
meeting”. He asked D.S. about the agreement
with the previous
Landlord regarding the use of the appliances. At that point, he said, D.S. became disgruntled
and told E.V. that he did not need to be questioned about the washer and dryer
and that he would find somewhere else to live.
 
21.   
He then asked D.S. when he might
want to vacate. He testified that D.S. said he could move out by the end of November. E.V. and the Landlord left the unit. E.V. was gathering
more supplies and his spouse, he said, contacted the other director to discuss
whether they wanted to terminate the tenancy. H.P. told E.V. that the directors
were agreeable to the termination date D.S. mentioned.
 
22.    Following those conversations, E.V. went to his
vehicle, where he had a portable laptop and printer for use in his construction
business. He downloaded, completed and printed an N11 Agreement form to provide
to D.S., with a termination date of November 30, 2021. E.V. testified that he returned
to the unit and presented the completed form to D.S.. He said he explained to D.S. that
the form was to terminate the tenancy on consent and advised him of the
termination date. He did not read the contents of the form to D.S..
 
23.   
E.V. then finished his work
in the unit. During that time, he said, D.S. had a fair bit of time to review the document
and to ask any questions before signing it. When he advised D.S. that he was finished his
maintenance, D.S. handed him the signed N11 Agreement. E.V.




 
then left the unit and delivered
the agreement to the other director, who provided the signed agreement to the paralegal.
 
24.    E.V. stated that he never asks tenants to acknowledge
on a signed form that work has been completed after
he performs maintenance. He also testified that D.S. never
told him at any time that he
had literacy challenges.
 
25.    In mid-to-late October 2021 E.V. telephoned D.S. after
receiving a message that D.S. wanted the Landlord to contact him by phone. He
spoke with D.S. who told E.V. that he did not agree with terminating the tenancy.
D.S. was very upset and aggressive on the call and hung up on E.V.. During a
subsequent phone call, D.S. told E.V. that he did not want to move, or to move so soon. E.V. proposed
that D.S. call him if D.S. had not found a place by mid-November.
 
26.   
When questioned upon cross-examination, E.V. stated that he thought
he had given D.S.
approximately 10 minutes
to review the agreement before
he finished his maintenance in the unit. E.V. did not think it was
necessary for D.S. to have additional time to review the two page form, or for
D.S. to have an opportunity to obtain legal advice prior to signing the
document. E.V. suggested that it was the Tenant’s responsibility to ask for
those accommodations.
 
27.   
E.V. testified
that “they” had not tried
to impose an extra charge on D.S. for the use of the
appliances, and he did not propose any resolution on August 7th in that regard. He said he wanted to figure out what the
arrangement was and to move forward from there.
 
Analysis
 
28.    For the reasons
that follow, I am satisfied that the order should be set aside.
 
29.    The N11 Agreement was signed by I.J. on August 7, 2021. This person
was not identified as a personal Landlord but I.J. signed the
application. No evidence was provided by the Landlord to substantiate the
details related to the signing of the N11 Agreement. In fact,
I.J. was never mentioned at the hearing.
 
30.   
There is no dispute
that the Landlord
H.P. and E.V. entered the unit on August 7, 2021 to perform maintenance, that E.V. and D.S.
had discussions, that E.V. gave a completed N11 Agreement to D.S. to sign, and
that D.S. signed the agreement and gave it back to E.V..
 
The Issue of the Appliances
 
31.    While D.S.’s use of the washer and dryer in his unit is not an
issue before the Board by way of application by either party,
the evidence and circumstances are relevant to determining credibility.
 
32.    E.V.’s evidence is that he told D.S. on August 7, 2021
that “they” had no intention of imposing an
extra charge for the use of the appliances- there
wasn’t any proposal
in that




 
regard. Conversely, D.S. testified that E.V. told him that day that the Landlord
would be asking him to pay
about $60.00 per month extra for use of the appliances.
 
33.    E.V. presented himself as being well-informed about
the Landlord’s ongoing actions in the
context of the tenancy. For reasons unknown, E.V. chose not to mention that as
of August 7th the
Landlord's Legal Representative had already mailed a letter to D.S., advising D.S. that the Landlord was imposing an extra charge
of $65.00 per month for the
use of the washer and dryer. This letter was received by D.S. on
August 8, 2021 and was not disputed.
I find that E.V.’s testimony on this issue was not forthright and undermines
his overall credibility.
 
Literacy Limitations
 
34.    D.S.’s evidence that he has very limited
literacy skills was essentially unchallenged. E.V. claims that he and the Landlord were unaware of D.S.’s challenges because D.S. did not inform them. However, the Landlord
presented no evidence to the contrary after being served with the motion to set
aside in November 2021, the content of which described D.S.’s literacy
limitations, or at the hearing, such as providing proof that D.S. has
communicated directly with this Landlord
or the previous landlord by text message,
email or otherwise in writing.
 
35.   
On the whole, I find the Tenant’s evidence
to be credible, straightforward and consistent.
There is no reason to doubt, and it
was unchallenged, that when D.S. received the letter from the Landlord's Legal Representative and the eviction order by mail, he immediately sought assistance from a
literate neighbour who read the documents to him. D.S. also sought legal
assistance to draft and file the motion to set aside. These facts bolster the
reliability of the Tenant’s assertions, in my view.
 
Was the Tenant Provided
a Reasonable Opportunity to Consider a Voluntary Termination of the Tenancy?
 
36.    The very nature of binding agreements means that the
terms of the agreement are negotiated in advance,
with each party having sufficient time and information to be able to
make a conscious, prudent choice
whether to enter into the contract.
It is inherently unfair to
ambush the other party with a previously unseen contract and require or expect
that the party to sign it without delay.
 
37.    It is reasonable to conclude that E.V. effectively ambushed D.S. by providing him with an unexpected agreement form to end the tenancy, and by giving him a clear
indication that he expected
D.S. to sign the document then and there. I
have reached this conclusion based on the following considerations.
 
38.    It is not disputed that D.S. became
frustrated on August
7th during the conversation with
E.V. about the appliances. His
emotional reaction was to express to E.V. and the Landlord the importance of
having continued use of this amenity at no charge, to the point that he would consider moving out if the Landlord
charged him an extra cost which
he could not afford.




 
39.   
E.V. immediately asked D.S. when
he would want to move out. Having heard this question, D.S. likely understood that the Landlord
had already determined to impose an additional charge for use
of the appliances. Possibly feeling defeated, he responded by giving a spontaneous vacate date.
 
40.    E.V. justified the decision to present the N11
Agreement to D.S. that day by relying on that
particular comment by D.S., and on the earlier comment
he says D.S. made, which at the time E.V. deemed
unsubstantial, about wanting to vacate the unit. While such comments ought to have prompted
the Landlord to pursue negotiations with D.S. about
terminating the tenancy, the Landlord failed to take those reasonable steps.
 
41.    Rather than offering D.S. an opportunity to seek
advice and to reflect on the pros and cons of terminating the tenancy, which
would not have caused any prejudice to the Landlord, E.V. hastily use a portable
laptop and printer
which he conveniently had in his vehicle, to complete and print the
N11 Agreement form and deliver
it to D.S.. The whole
process likely occurred well under one hour in total. While the Landlord, who
was present, had the opportunity to sign the agreement with the Tenant at the
time, she did not do so and, in fact, seemed peripherally involved.
 
42.    Even if I accepted
that E.V. gave D.S. 10 minutes to review
the document, per E.V.’s
testimony, I am unconvinced that such a short time would have been a sufficient
opportunity for D.S. to make an informed decision about ending the tenancy.
 
43.   
There is nothing in the record,
either, demonstrating that the Landlord or her agent made any effort in advance to explain to the Tenant in
writing about the process (e.g. we spoke about terminating the tenancy and came
to an agreement, there is a form to sign which we will provide to you, you can
review the form, we can discuss the form if needed, you and I will both sign it, we will then seek an order from the Board to confirm the termination
date, and if you do not move out by that date, you may be evicted by the
Sheriff.)
 
44.    D.S.’s testimony is persuasive. I am satisfied that
E.V. gave D.S. the agreement to sign after the maintenance work in the unit was
completed, not 10 minutes in advance. I accept the evidence of D.S. who says he
did not think that he needed time to review it, and that he signed it without
delay because he understood it was a document that had no particular significance to him.
 
Did the Tenant Provide
Informed Consent?
 
45.    Based on the evidence before me, I find
that there was no informed consent
to the N11 Agreement by the Tenant. I reach this conclusion having
considered the following.
 
46.   
Generally speaking, an agreement on consent will not be
set aside on a motion or on
review, except in a limited
number of circumstances: common mistake, fraud, duress,
misrepresentation, lack of capacity or unconscionability.




 
47.   
The test for unconscionability is
set quite high in respect of contracts. The following elements are required to
satisfy the legal test: (1) a grossly unfair and improvident1 transaction, (2) a party’s lack of independent, or
otherwise suitable, advice, (3) an overwhelming power imbalance caused by a party’s ignorance of business or language,
illiteracy, illness, disability, and/or age, and (4) the other party taking
advantage of this vulnerability.
 
48.    It has long been recognized by the courts
and the legislature that landlords generally
hold the balance of power in landlord-tenant relationships. That is why
there are specific and substantial protections afforded to tenants under the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).
 
49.    The concept of unconscionability in law applies
to situations in which the party who wields
the most power in a relationship takes unfair
advantage of the other, vulnerable, party for significant gain and in
doing so unfairly deprives the other party of something important.
 
50.    In order for an agreement to terminate a tenancy under the Act to be lawful, in my view, it
requires that the element of voluntary and fully informed consent of each party
be satisfied.
 
51.   
If the content of the agreement is mispresented by one party
-fraudulently or otherwise- or it lacks information about all of the relevant
circumstances, or is based on misleading
information or advice, then the other party lacks the fulsome information
necessary to freely consent. If one party is unable to, provide such consent,
or signs an agreement under duress, the agreement will likewise
be unenforceable because it is fundamentally unfair.
 
52.   
Absent from the communications on August 7, 2021 was a fulsome
discussion initiated by either E.V. or the Landlord about
whether the parties could come to a written agreement to terminate the tenancy
in the moment. Neither E.V. nor the Landlord explored with D.S. whether he
fully understood the serious consequential impact of voluntarily signing an
agreement that day to end his tenancy. D.S.’s contention that E.V.
misrepresented the nature of the document to him has an air of reality, and I
accept his version of events.
 
53.    As I have already determined, above, it is clear that D.S. was not afforded
a reasonable opportunity
inform himself sufficiently in order to make a choice that was right for him.
 
54.    I note that while there is no provision in the Act requiring a landlord to advise a tenant to seek legal advice
prior to entering into an agreement contemplated in the Act, or to even
provide an opportunity to the tenant to do so, this does not mean that
landlords are absolved from taking this precautionary step.
 
55.   
It is a particularly relevant ethical responsibility where the contract
or agreement directly impacts an unsophisticated or
vulnerable tenant’s security of tenancy. It is also an
 












1
Black’s Law Dictionary definition : “when given or rendered without adequate
consideration, or without proper information
as to all the circumstances affecting it, or based upon a mistaken
assumption or misleading information or advice”




 
opportunity for a landlord
to guard against claims
such as the one before
me, and so benefits the landlord.
 
Conclusions
 
56.    Having carefully considered the evidence and submissions of the parties,
I find that D.S. has led
sufficient credible evidence to establish that it is more likely than not that
he is telling the truth. I find that
E.V. offered an incomplete version of the truth and misrepresented the facts
for the Landlord’s benefit.
 
57.   
I have also taken into account
E.V.’s comment that D.S. was “more present” at their second meeting,
which signifies that E.V. was aware, or ought to have been aware, that
D.S. was likely a vulnerable tenant.
 
58.    In my view, these circumstances involve a Landlord and
Landlord’s agent who recognized, and hastily seized upon, an opportunity to
take unfair advantage of an unsophisticated tenant for the purpose
of evicting him in the simplest and most expedient way possible, without the need
for Board oversight. To be clear, I do not find that the Landlord or E.V. acted
with any malice towards the Tenant, but there is evidence of deception and this
conduct cannot be condoned.
 
59.    The subsequent actions of D.S. do not establish that
he freely signed an agreement to terminate the tenancy
but later changed
his mind. Rather,
they demonstrate that he was unaware that he had agreed to terminate the tenancy and, once he discovered what had
really happened, he took immediate action to object.
 
60.    With regard to all of the circumstances that occurred
with respect to the signing of the agreement to terminate the tenancy and
thereafter, I am satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the Tenant did
not enter into an agreement with the Landlord to terminate the tenancy, nor did the Tenant give the Landlord
notice of termination of the tenancy
pursuant to section 47 of the Act.
 
61.    Further, the fact that that the Tenant, an individual
with literacy challenges, entered into such
an improvident agreement
without sufficient opportunity to review the document, to negotiate with the Landlord or to
access legal advice dictates that it would be unconscionable to let the
agreement stand.
 
62.    Pursuant to subsection 77(8) of the Act, the Board must set aside the order.
 
63.    This order contains
all of the reasons for my decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.       
Order TEL-19333-21 issued on September 23, 2021 is set aside.
 
2.       
The Landlord’s application is dismissed.




 
3.       
The N11 Agreement to End the Tenancy, dated August 7, 2021, is of no force and effect.
 




 
February 2, 2022


  Elle Venhola         




Date Issued                                                                      Elle Venhola
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

