Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-12
File number:	
TEL-11278-20-RV

Citation:	Kawartha Lakes Haliburton Housing Corp. v Mian, 2022 CanLII 57945 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq2vz>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-11278-20-RV
 
 



In the matter
of:


116, 610 MOUNTAIN STREET HALIBURTON ON K0M1S0


 




Between:


Kawartha Lakes Haliburton Housing Corp.


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Jhannat
Mian


Tenant



 
 
Kawartha Lakes
Haliburton Housing Corp. (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the
tenancy and evict Jhannat Mian (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant or another
occupant of the rental unit has committed an illegal act or has carried out, or
permitted someone to carry out an illegal trade, business or occupation in the
rental unit or the residential complex involving the production of an illegal
drug, the trafficking in an illegal drug or the possession of an illegal drug
for the purposes of trafficking. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the
termination date.
 
This application was resolved by order
TEL-11278-20 issued on June 9, 2021.
 
On June 17, 2021, the Tenant requested a review of the order and
that the order be stayed until
the request to review the order is resolved.
 
On June 23, 2021 interim order TEL-11278-20-RV-IN was issued, staying
the order issued
on June 9, 2021.
 
The Tenant alleged that the she was not reasonably able
to participate in the proceedings. This request was heard by videoconference on September 23, 2021 and December 20, 2021.
The Landlord and the Landlord's Legal Representative S. Smith and Tenant attended the hearing on September 23, 2021 and only the Landlord and the Landlord's Legal Representative attended the hearing on December 20, 2021. As of 10:45 a.m., the
Tenant was not present or represented
at the hearing although properly served with notice of this hearing by the
Board.




 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Matter: Tenant not in attendance at continuation of the hearing
 
1.    
The matter before the Board was a review
of order TEL-11278-20 on the basis that the Tenant was not reasonably able to
participate in the proceedings.
 
2.    
The Tenant attended the
review hearing held on September 23, 2021 and the review request was granted on the basis that the Tenant was not reasonably able to participate in
the proceedings. The de novo hearing proceeded on September 23, 2021
with the Landlord’s evidence and cross-examination. The hearing was adjourned to be continued for an additional 30 minutes as
there was insufficient time in the hearing block to conclude the hearing. The
Board served the parties with a Notice of Hearing for the continuation of the
matter to be held on December 20, 2021.
 
3.    
The review hearing
continued on December 20, 2021. At the hearing only the Landlord and the
Landlord's Legal Representative
attended the hearing; the Tenant did not attend the hearing. As the Tenant did not attended
the hearing, the matter was held down for 30 minutes to permit her attendance. As
the Tenant was not present at 9:30 am, the matter proceeded to be heard as
uncontested with the Landlord concluding their evidence and their closing
submissions.
 
4.    
The Board
records indicate that at 11:41 am the Board received
a call from the Tenant,
subsequent to the hearing concluding, advising that the Tenant was unable to
join the conference line. The Tenant also called into the afternoon hearing
block at 3:00 pm on videoconference line 125, advising that she had attempted
to call into the hearing and could not be connected.
 
5.    
I would note
that the Tenant’s position was stated
at the hearing of September 23, 2021 and that the
allegations made in the application are serious. I would further note
that no other parties had difficulties in connecting on the conference line and the Tenant had no
difficulties connecting on the conference line at 3:00 pm.
 
The Review Request
 
6.    
On June 17, 2021 the
Tenant requested a review of order TEL-111278-20 issued on June 9, 2021, alleging
that she was not reasonably able to participate in the proceedings. The Tenant stated that she
never received the Notice of Hearing and would have participated if she had
known the matter was proceeding.
 
7.    
Upon review of the
Board’s file, I find that the Notice of Hearing was not sent to the Tenant by
the Board. The Tenant’s copy of the Notice of Hearing was in fact mailed in
error to the Landlord’s Legal
Representative. The Tenant testified that she did not receive the Notice of Hearing.
 
8.    
As the Notice of Hearing was not sent to the Tenant
and did not come to her attention, I am satisfied that the Tenant
was not reasonably able to participate in the proceedings. I




 
granted the Tenant’s request
for a review at the hearing on September 23, 2021, and the
de novo hearing proceeded.
 
The L2 Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant
 
1.    
The Tenant
resides in the rental unit and
pays a monthly rent in the amount
of $85.00.
 
2.    
On June 9, 2020, the Landlord
served the Tenant a
N6 Notice of Termination (‘N6 notice’)
alleging that the Tenant or someone
living with the Tenant has carried out an illegal act at the residential complex including: the
production of an illegal drug; trafficking in an illegal drug; possession of an
illegal drug for the purposes of trafficking.
 
The Landlord’s Evidence
 
9.    
The Landlord’s witness Detective Constable T. Landreville attended
the hearing and gave
evidence. Officer Landlerville testified that he is a member of the Community
Street Crime Unit and he participated
in a drug trafficking investigation at the rental unit and on May 28, 2020 they executed search
warrants at the unit. He testified Tenant
was arrested and charged with
possession of controlled substances, possession of controlled substances for
the purposes of trafficking, and possession of proceeds of crime-cash over $5,000.00. He testified that cocaine
was found in the unit valuing approximately
$20,000.00, along
with drug paraphernalia. He testified that the matter
is still proceeding before the courts.
 
10.  The Landlord’s witness
Jackie Smith (‘JS’) attended the hearing and testified on behalf of the Landlord. JS testified that she is
the Community Support Worker for the residential complex and has been in her
position for the past 3 ½ years. She testified that she is aware of the Tenant
from her role and she is aware that the individuals who were arrested with the
Tenant on May 28, 2020 are people that she has seen the Tenant socializing
within the past. JS testified that the incidents in the building regarding the
Tenant have been on-going since May 28, 2020. She testified that in the last six
months the Police have been called to
the Tenants unit, and have attended the unit, as follows: 6 times in April, 4 times in May, July 6,
2021, August 12 and 14, 2021 and September 1, 2021.
 
The Tenant’s Position
September 23, 2021
 
11.  The Tenant attended the hearing on
September 23, 2021 and in the course of her cross- examination of Officer Landreville put forward the following propositions for her case. The
Tenant stated the following:
•        
She had called the OPP to report issues
with people in the residential complex and next door
in unit 117 regarding drugs and guns;
•        
She met with the OPP at the Silver
Maple Hotel to discuss unauthorized people in her rental unit;
•        
She called the OPP in
April and on May 19 regarding drug trafficking in unit 117 and she asked that the unit be raided by the police as the neighbours had broken into her
rental unit;




 
•        
She advised the OPP
that drugs had been placed in her unit and she did not want them there and she was reaching out for help as she felt threatened and unsafe; and
•        
After the event she went to the Police station to make a statement because
out of fear she did not tell the truth in the original statement she
had made to the Police.
 
12.  In response to the Tenant’s
cross-examination Officer Landreville stated that he had had access to the Police
records and reports
and from his review of them he was not aware of the Tenant’s allegations except that
she had called the Police regarding drugs having been placed in her unit. He
testified that the drug investigation was ongoing and was not begun due to the
Tenant’s call to the Police. He stated he was not aware of calls regarding a
break-in in the Tenant’s rental unit.
 
13.  In the course of the Tenant’s cross-examination of Jackie Smith,
the Tenant put forward
the following arguments in her case:
•        
She asked
the housing office
to meet with her regarding unwanted people in her unit and safety concerns;
•        
She was afraid to be in her unit and had concerns with people leaving
their doors open;
•        
Someone broke into her unit and she asked
housing to change
the locks on the rental unit door; and
•        
She asked for a transfer through
victim services worker
due to safety concerns 1 ½ to 2 years ago.
 
14.  In response to the Tenant’s
cross-examination JS testified that she did not meet with the Tenant regarding safety concerns in her unit.
There was a meeting with the Tenant
at the housing office but she
had no direct memory but did not recall it had to do with safety issues. The
Tenant was absent from the unit for some time
and did ask for a lock
change on the unit, but it was because she informed her that she had
lost her keys, not because of a break-in. She testified that the Tenant had
asked for a unit transfer when she first moved in but just an internal
transfer.
 
Legislation and Analysis
 
15.  The Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, S.O. 2006, c.17 (‘Act’) states the following:
61 (1) A landlord
may give a tenant notice of termination of the tenancy
if the tenant or another occupant of the rental unit commits an illegal
act or carries on an illegal trade, business or occupation or permits a person
to do so in the rental unit or the residential complex.
(2)  
A notice
of termination under this section shall set out the grounds for termination and shall provide a
termination date not earlier than,
(a)  
the 10th day after the notice is given, in the case of a notice grounded on an
illegal act, trade, business or occupation involving,
(i)   the production of an illegal
drug,
(ii)   the trafficking in an illegal
drug, or
(iii)   the possession of an illegal
drug for the purposes of trafficking…




 
 
 
 
16.  Based on the evidence before the Board, I
find on a balance of probabilities that the Tenant carried out an illegal act
in relation to possession of an illegal drug for the purposes of trafficking. It was uncontested that the drugs and money were located
in the Tenant’s rental unit.
The Tenant did not contest that her initial statements to the Police were not consistent with a unit takeover and that
she later attended the Police station to request that the report be changed or
she be permitted to provide additional different information.
 
17.  The Tenant did not attend the conclusion of
the hearing to provide her complete version of
the events. Therefore, on the basis of the limited evidence
before the Board I prefer the
evidence of Officer Landreville that the records and reports of the Police do
not support the Tenant’s assertion that the individuals in her unit were
uninvited and has broken into her rental unit. I find the assertion lacks
credibility as there was no evidence before the Board to contradict JS’s
testimony that the individuals arrested at the unit were friends of the Tenant
who were seen with the Tenant at the unit.
 
Section 83 and the Request
for an Expedited Eviction
 
18.  The Landlord seeks an expedited enforcement
of the eviction order as they state
that the allegations and charges
are serious and there have been ongoing
incidents regarding the Tenant resulting in Police attendances
since the filing of the application. The Landlord states that the conduct of
the Tenant is affecting the character of the building and posing a safety risk
to other tenants in the residential complex. The Landlord states that the
matter has been before the Board and ongoing since the application’s filing
date of June 11, 2020.
 
19.  The Tenant did not attend the continuation
of the hearing to provide evidence and submissions regarding her circumstances. However, it was undisputed that the Tenant’s monthly rent is $85.00,
indicating that she is in receipt of a subsidy and therefore has a limited
income.
 
20.  I have considered the circumstances of both parties.
Taking into account
that the Tenant resides in a small community and
that the Province is currently under restrictions due to the Covid-19 Pandemic,
I find that it may be more difficult at this time for the Tenant to find alternative affordable housing. I also take into account
the fact that the Landlord
has proven the serious allegations and that there are concerns regarding
ongoing disturbances on the property resulting from the Tenant and her rental
unit.
 
21.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) and 83(6) of the Act and find that
it would not be unfair to postpone the eviction until January 31, 2022,
pursuant to subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act. In balancing the interests and
prejudice to each of the parties, I find that the Tenant will require
additional time to find housing. I have considered that she has been aware of
the proceedings for over a year and therefore has had time to begin her housing
search. Therefore, I find that to January 31, 2022 is a reasonable amount of
additional time. I find that this is not overly




 
prejudicial to the Landlord
as it is a short extension of time for the Tenant
to vacate the rental unit.
 
22.  The Landlord incurred
costs of $175.00
for filing the application and is entitled
to reimbursement of those costs.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The tenancy
between the Landlord
and the Tenant is terminated, as of January 31, 2022.
The Tenant must move out of the rental unit on or before January 31, 2022.
 
2.    
The Tenant
shall pay to the Landlord
$1,584.72, which represents compensation for the use of the unit from June 23, 2020 to
January 12, 2022.
 
3.    
The Landlord shall deduct from the amount
owing any payments
the Tenant has made to the Landlord since the
application was filed.
 
4.    
The Tenant
shall also pay to the Landlord $2.79 per day for compensation for the use of
the unit from January 13, 2022 to the date the Tenant moves out of the unit.
 
5.    
The Tenant
shall also pay the Landlord
$175.00 for the cost of filing he application.
 
6.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before January 23, 2022, the Tenant will start
to owe interest. This will be simple
interest calculated from January 24, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
7.    
If the unit is not vacated
on or before January 31, 2022, then starting
February 1, 2022, the Landlord may file this order
with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be
enforced.
 
8.    
Upon receipt of this
order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after February 1, 2022. The Sheriff is requested to expedite the enforcement
of this order.












January 12, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Nicola Mulima
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland
Avenue, Unit 2 Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires
on July 30, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this date
with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction
where the rental unit is located.

