Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-26
File number:	
TEL-19783-21

Citation:	Meyers v Lambrecht, 2022 CanLII 81282 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrt7v>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 9(2)
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-19783-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


NOBLE
  CON 1 PT 1 LOT 21 IRREG STREET HAVELOCK-BELMONT-METHUEN ON K0L1Z0


 




Between:


Evan
  Meyers


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Michael Lambrecht


Tenant



 
 
Evan Meyers
(the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to determine
whether the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act')
applies.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on January 18, 2022.
 
Only the Landlord and the
Landlord's Legal Representative, Crystal Francey, attended the hearing. As of 11:45 a.m., the Tenant was not present
or represented at the hearing
although properly served with notice of this hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
1.   
For the reasons that follow, I find the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) does not
apply.
 
2.    The Landlord testified that he owns the lot property on Noble Street.
It is a vacant lot, there
are no services and it is not approved for residential use. Since it is not
approved for residential use it also does not have a formal address. There is
also no sewer, water or waste collection. The lot has never been used for
residential purposes or leased out;
there are not structures on it.
 
3.   
The Landlord further testified
that he did not give Michael Lambrecht (ML) permission or consent to his living
on the vacant lot; ML moved his trailer onto the property and just began living
there. ML is squatting, he has never paid anything
to stay there and
he should not be there.
 
4.    The Landlord further testified that he received a
letter from the Township dated June 11, 2021
advising that the property located
at CON 1 PT LOT was in contravention of “Section
4.32 “Prohibited Habitation and
Storage of Goods, Materials or Equipment (Trailers)” as per By-law
1995-42 Township of Havelock-Belmont-Methuen Comprehensive Zoning By- law,
1995-41 as Amended”. The letter was entered into evidence.




 
5.   
The Landlord testified that he was given until June 25, 2021 to have ML vacate the lot; he has not yet received any fine from the
Township, but they want ML gone as soon as possible. ML was served by the
Township about the contravention, and the Landlord has texted him; ML is
refusing to leave. He knows who ML
is because it is a small community plus By-law visited a couple of times and
verified the name.
 
6.    The Landlord's Legal
Representative submitted that the Landlord
is seeking an order that the Act does not apply; ML is living
there in contravention of numerous By-laws.
 
Analysis
 
1.    Section 3(1) says the Act applies to rental units in residential complexes, despite any other
Act, agreement or waiver to the contrary, with the exception of the Human
Rights Code (s.3(4)). Therefore, to determine the application of the Act, step
1 is to look at what the terms rental units and residential complexes mean.
 
2.    Section 2 of the Act defines “rental unit” as any
living accommodation used or intended for use
as rented residential premises, and includes
a “mobile home or site on which there
is a land lease home used or
intended for use as rented residential premises.
 
3.   
The definition of “residential complex” in section
2 includes “a building or related group
of buildings in which one or more rental units are located, and a mobile
home park or land lease community.
 
4.    Here , based on the uncontested evidence
and testimony before
me I find that the property
in question is a vacant lot; it has not been approved for residential
occupation and it does not have any buildings that contain a rental unit.
Further, I find that it is not a land lease; the Landlord owns the vacant
property and has never leased it out. Therefore, I find neither the term “rental unit” nor “residential complex” apply
to the vacant lot in question. An order will issue for same.
 
5.    As I have found under step 1 that the property does
not fall under the Act, it is not necessary
to move onto step 2 and 3, which would be determining if the definition of “landlord” and “tenant” apply.
 
6.    I also find that section 202 of the Act does not apply
with respect to ascertaining the real substance of a transaction as that section
relates to transactions and activities related
to a residential complex or
unit; this property is neither.
 
7.   
I further find that there is no contract in place between the Landlord and ML with respect to this property. Basic
principles of contract apply to the formation of a contract/lease, you need: an
offer; acceptance; and consideration. You also need a meeting of the minds.
Here, as there was no offer by the Landlord there was nothing for ML to accept,
and there has been no consideration paid. As ML took it upon himself
to just start living on the vacant lot, there was also no meeting of
the minds.




 
8.   
This order contains all the reasons
for the decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Act does not
apply.
 
 








 
 
Diane Wade




 


January 26, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

