Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-16
File number:	
TEL-10036-20

Citation:	Daly v Gonzales, 2022 CanLII 97999 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsjl6>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-10036-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


BASEMENT, 540 OLD HARWOOD AVENUE AJAX ON L1T3L1


 




Between:


Marcus Daly
  Debra Daly


Landlords




 


and


 




 


April Gonzales


Tenant



 
 
 
Marcus Daly and Debra Daly (the
'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict April
Gonzales (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit
or someone the Tenant
permitted in the residential complex has wilfully
or negligently caused
undue damage to the premises. The Landlords has also applied for an
order requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlords for the damage. The
Landlords also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the
unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 12, 2021.
 
The Landlords, the Landlord's Legal Representative, Daniel
Greanya, and the Tenant attended the hearing.
 
The Tenant spoke with Duty Counsel
prior to the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     On February 6, 2020 the Landlords served
a notice of termination because
the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant
permitted in the residential complex has caused damage to the premises. The
termination date on the notice was February 28, 2020.
 
2.     The Tenant was in possession of the rental
unit when the application was filed.
The Tenant moved into the rental unit mid-July 2017.
 
3.     It is undisputed that the Landlord
is holding a $1,000.00 damage deposit. The Landlords
agreed that this money should be deducted off any amounts the Tenant is found
liable for.
 
4.     The Landlord is not holding
a last month rent deposit as it was applied
to the last month’s rent. The
Tenant vacated August 13, 2020.




 
 
 
5.    
I
find the Tenant
did not willfully or negligently cause undue damage to the rental
residential unit. I say this for the reasons that follow.
 
Landlords’ testimony
 
6.     Debra Daly testified
to the following on behalf
of both Landlords.
 
7.     The Tenant was operating
a t-shirt printing press in the
unit. Approximately October 2018 the Landlords noticed that the fumes
from the printing press had damaged the ceiling because the Tenant used the
fans in the kitchen and bathroom to get rid of the fumes. The Landlord entered
into evidence a picture of the printing press and a smaller press which
appeared to be located between the kitchen and bathroom, in a hallway area. On
October 18, 2018 the Landlords texted the Tenant
about coming over to clean
the ceiling, and on October
1, 2019 they texted their concern over the printing press and having to paint
the ceiling; the texts were entered into evidence. The Landlords had to wipe
black residue off the bathroom ceiling and then paint. This cost a total of
$600.00, approximately $200.00 was for the paint; there was no receipt.
 
8.     Approximately October 25, 2018, the Tenant damaged
the toilet lid; she was supposed to replace it but could not find a lid
for the toilet. On October 31, 2019, the Landlords texted that they found a
toilet bowl cover; the text was entered into evidence. The Landlords also testified that the toilet
ended up being
replaced. The receipt
from Home Depot dated September 19, 2019 in the amount of
$197.75 for the installation of the new toilet was entered into evidence as
well as another Home Depot receipt also dated September 12, 2019 installation
of kitchen/bathroom sink and faucet in the amount of $299.45.
 
9.     On February 13, 2019 the Tenant texted that she noticed mice in the unit so had bought a
trap. They caught a mouse and one of her children went to flush the dead mouse
down the toilet and accidentally dropped the trap also; now the toilet will not
flush properly. The text was entered into evidence. It cost the Landlords
$282.50 to fix the toilet. No receipt was provided.
 
10.  In September 2019 the Landlords noticed damage to the
granite countertop. It was only about 2 ½ years old and had chips out of it.
The estimate to replace the countertop, from Richy Granite in the amount of
$1,850.00 plus H.S.T., was entered into evidence. The estimate indicates
that plumbing costs are not included; the Landlords estimated
this cost at $299.45.
 
11.  Approximately March 2019, the Landlords
notice that the Tenant has damaged floor tiles
in the kitchen and one of the bedrooms. The rental unit is in the basement;
therefore, the ceramic tiles
are on cement; it looked like something heavy was dropped because wear and tear
would not break the tile. Two pictures were entered into evidence showing a
small chip in two tiles and a larger chip in another tile. The cost to repair
the tiles was
$452.00; the work was done by Collin Exiter,
a tiler who has done work for them before. No receipt was provided.




 
Tenant’s testimony
 
12.  The Tenant testified to the following.
 
13.  The black on the ceiling had nothing to do with her
printing press; no ink is used as it is an iron on press. The second ‘press’
pointed out by the Landlords is a cutter; it cuts the vinyl that is iron
pressed onto the t-shirt. The black on the bathroom ceiling is actually mould;
when she brought it to the Landlords attention, they blamed her and the
printing press for it. She knows it is mould because the bathroom is attached
to the master bedroom and the mould is in there also and has damaged
clothing; pictures of the mould on the bathroom ceiling and damaged
clothing were entered into evidence.
 
14.  When the Tenant reported the mice to the Landlords,
they ignored her, therefore she bought a trap. When attempting to flush the dead mouse
down the toilet,
the trap was accidentally dropped and got flushed
down; she texted the Landlords about what happened because the toilet did not
flush right afterwards.
 
15.  With respect to the toilet
cover, the Landlords said they had an extra
cover and put this
on, therefore there was no need to replace the toilet.
 
16.  In regard to the countertop, there was no damage done
to it, there is one nick that would be considered wear
and tear, not damage. The Tenant entered into evidence pictures of the countertop; one of the pictures showed
a tiny nick on the edge of the counter.
Picture number 4 was taken September 2019, the others were taken in
January 2020; the counter does not show any signs of damage.
 
17.  As for the tiles, the two tiles with the very small
chips are in the kitchen; she does not know
when or how they got chipped. The larger chipped
tile is in the kids’ bedroom; when moving the bunkbed, the tile chipped.
The tile must have already had a crack or been damaged because moving the bed
should not have chipped it. Plus, there was nothing deliberate of intentional
about the chip happening.
 
Analysis
 
18.  As the Tenant
has vacated the rental unit this application is now based on
Section 89(1) of the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).
 
19.  Section 89(1) of the Act states that a Landlord may apply to the Board for an order requiring a Tenant to pay reasonable costs that the Landlord
has incurred or will incur for the
repair of or, where repairing is not reasonable, the replacement of damaged
property, if the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person whom
the Tenant permits in the residential complex willfully or negligently causes
undue damage to the rental unit or the residential complex and the Tenant is in
possession of the rental unit.
 
20.  The Landlords testified that the Tenant damaged the
toilet, countertop, ceramic tiles, and caused damage to the bathroom ceiling in
the form of a black residue, because of her printing press. However, there is
insufficient evidence to support these allegations.




 
21.  The Landlords did present any pictures of the alleged
damage to the countertop. The pictures entered into evidence by the Tenant show a near pristine countertop; one picture shows a tiny nick on the edge
which the Tenant testified must have been from wear and tear. Therefore, based
on the evidence and testimony before me, I find on a balance of probabilities
that the countertop was not damaged, and the one nick would be from wear and
tear. Therefore, this part of the application must be dismissed.
 
22.  With respect to the toilet, there is insufficient
evidence to find the Tenant willfully or negligently caused damage to it. The
mousetrap was accidentally dropped into the toilet, and the Landlords testified
that it had to be fixed twice
in one week. I do not find this issue to fall under either willful or
negligent conduct, it was merely an accident. Therefore, the Tenant is not responsible for any alleged
costs incurred by the
Landlords; costs which did not have any supporting documentation. Further, having
to repair the toilet does not explain why the Landlords replaced it. In
regard to the toilet lid, the October 31, 2019 text from Landlords say they had
one to replace it, therefore there was no cost incurred. Nor was there any testimony given by either
party as to how the lid got damaged, therefore there is no proof of willful
or negligent conduct
and the problem was addressed. Further, one of the
receipts from Home Depot was for the installation of “kitchen/bath sink and faucet”;
this has nothing to do with the toilet,
nor were these issues part of the application. Therefore, for all these reasons
this part of the application must also be dismissed.
 
23.  In regard to the ceramic tiles I find based on the
evidence and testimony before me that the chips were caused from regular wear
and tear, not willful or negligent conduct on the part of the Tenant.
The Tenant’s testimony
that the chips in the two kitchen
tiles were very small is supported by the Landlords’ pictures. Plus, the Tenant’s undisputed testimony was that she
did not know when or how the chips happened. As for the larger chip in the
bedroom tile, I accept the Tenant’s undisputed testimony that this happened
when she moved the bunkbed
and that moving a bed does not equate to willful or negligent conduct. I also accept that it is more
likely that the tile had either a
defect or problem that caused it to chip as it did when the bed was moved.
For all these reasons, this part of the application must be dismissed.
 
24.  Based on the Tenant’s undisputed testimony as to the
type of printing press and how it is used, specifically that there is no ink involved, I find the Landlords did not prove any willful or negligent conduct on the part
of the Tenant that caused the black on the bathroom ceiling. The Tenant’s pictures
appear to be more akin to a mould issue
and totally separate from Tenant’s t-shirt printing
press and vinyl cutter. Also, the Tenant’s testimony and pictures support it
being more likely that mould that extended from the bathroom into the master bedroom
and grew on her clothing.
Therefore, I find on the testimony and evidence
before me, on a balance
of probabilities, the black on the bathroom
ceiling was not caused
by the Tenant’s t-shirt press. Accordingly, this part of the application must
also be dismissed.
 
25.  As this was the Landlords’ application, this order does not address the $1,000.00 damage deposit being held by the
Landlords.




 
26.  This order contains
all the reasons for the decision within
it. No further reasons shall be
issued.
 
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlords application is dismissed.
 
 








 
 
Diane Wade




 


February 16, 2022 Date Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

