Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-26
File number:	
TEL-19215-21

Citation:	L. Naem Investments Inc. v Menton, 2022 CanLII 81383 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrt6j>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-19215-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


1 A, 305 SAGUENAY AVENUE OSHAWA ON L1J2M9


 




Between:


L. Naem
Investments Inc.


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Rachel Menton


Tenant



 
 
 
L. Naem Investments Inc. (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
Rachel Menton (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant or another occupant of the
rental unit has committed an illegal act or has carried out, or permitted
someone to carry out an illegal trade, business or occupation in the rental
unit or the residential complex
involving the production of an illegal drug,
the trafficking in an illegal drug or the possession of an illegal drug for the
purposes of trafficking. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day
the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by video conference on January 11, 2022.
 
Only the Landlord’s agent,
S. Matty, and the Landlord’s legal representative, A. Nahhab, attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Tenant did not attend
the hearing, scheduled for 9 a.m. I waited
over an hour, and
then I proceeded to hear the matter on an uncontested basis.
 
2.     The Landlord served an N6 notice of termination on the
Tenant, alleging that she committed an illegal
act, or she permitted someone
to carry out an illegal
act involving the production of an illegal drug, the
trafficking in an illegal drug or the possession of an illegal drug for the
purposes of trafficking.
 
3.     The N6 notice
of termination referred
to an incident that occurred
on July 30, 2021.
 
4.    
The Landlord’s agent, S. Matty
(SM), said that the Landlord was contacted by Durham police on July 28, 2021,
with regard to concerns about illegal drug trafficking on the residential complex.
She said that they were specifically concerned
about the Tenant’s rental unit, as well as unit
#11. SM said that the police asked
for access to camera




 
footage, as well as access to the building.
She entered into evidence her consent to the
police for the access they requested.
 
5.     SM submitted into evidence photos
of a person who she identified as Kyle Reher (KR), a guest of the Tenant. She said that he also visited unit #11. SM said that she had seen KR many times,
and she had heard about him. SM
submitted into evidence video footage of the Tenant admitting KR into the
residential complex.
 
6.     SM submitted into evidence photos
and footage of a police
raid that took place on July
30, 2021, on the residential complex.
 
7.     SM said
that the police shared their
report of what had
happened on July 30, 2021. She said that the police executed
a raid on unit #11
and the rental unit on that day. She
said that the police believed that KR visited
both units, and that KR was wanted
on 4 different warrants. She
said that the Tenant was found in possession of fentanyl, but it was too small
a quantity to arrest her for trafficking.
 
8.     SM said that KR was charged with trafficking, but he
has been seen visiting the residential complex since the raid. SM said that she has served KR with a trespass notice, and she has told
the Tenant not to admit him to the residential complex. Nevertheless, SM submitted into evidence video
footage from December
12 and 13, 2021, of the Tenant admitting KR into the residential
complex.
 
9.     SM said that the Landlord has received numerous
complaints about the behaviour of the Tenant
and KR fighting and screaming. She said that they started
a fire in the building
on October 2, 2021.
 
10.  SM said that the Landlord is very concerned about the
Tenant’s behaviour and the behaviour of
her guest KR. She said that many tenants have expressed concern for their
safety, and she said that her superintendent has sent her photos of needles in front of the
building. She also said that some
tenants have vacated their units because of safety concerns.
 
11.  SM said that any attempts
at discussion with the Tenant
have failed. She said that the
Tenant avoids her, and that the
Tenant has denied any connection to the drug raids in July, 2021.
 
12.  The Landlord submits
that the Tenant
has permitted KR to carry on illegal
drug trafficking activities,
and he has been arrested for possession of controlled substances for the
purposes of trafficking. The Landlord
submits that the Tenant and her guest have created an unsafe environment in the
residential complex, people are afraid for their safety, and the Tenant
continues to permit KR access despite many warnings and a trespass notice. The Landlord requests expedited eviction
of the Tenant.




 
Reasons and Analysis:
 
13.  Subsection 61(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 (the ‘Act’) provides that a landlord may give a tenant notice of
termination of the tenancy if the tenant or another occupant of the rental
unit commits an illegal act or carries
on an illegal trade, business
or occupation or permits a person to do so in the rental unit or the
residential complex.
 
14.  The Landlord’s witness
had testimonial and documentary evidence
of a raid that occurred on the residential complex,
involving the Tenant’s rental unit, on July 30, 2021. The Landlord’s witness had testimonial and documentary evidence
that the raid resulted in criminal charges against KR for drug trafficking
activities. The Landlord’s witness
had video and testimonial evidence that the Tenant has admitted KR into the building,
and that he stays with her frequently, and that the Tenant has continued to
admit KR into the building after the raid, and up until at least December,
2021.
 
15.  Consequently, I find
that the Landlord has proved, on a
balance of probabilities, that the
Tenant or an occupant of the Tenant’s rental unit has permitted someone, namely
Kyle Reher, to commit an illegal act involving the production of an illegal
drug or trafficking in an illegal drug or possession of an illegal
drug for the purposes of trafficking
in the rental unit or the residential complex.
 
16.   The Landlord has attempted to prohibit KR from
attending the property by getting a trespass
order against him. Nevertheless, the Tenant admitted
him into the residential
complex, and has continued to do so despite having been warned repeatedly by
the Landlord not to admit him.
 
17.  Consequently, a conditional order prohibiting KR from
the premises would not be effective, as the Tenant has ignored all warnings, and she avoids
discussing the issue with the Landlord.
 
18.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances
above in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that
it would be unfair to grant relief
from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the Act.
 
19.  An order for contravention of section 61 of the Act is
eligible for an expedited eviction order. In
this case, there are residents living in very real fear about the safety of the
residential complex, and their own safety while in their own rental units. The building has already been subject to a mass raid by
the police, and this has affected the character of the residential complex. KR continues to blatantly disregard a no trespass
order, and the Tenant continues to admit him. The Landlord’s employees have found
needles strewn about the residential complex.
Therefore, I find that expedited eviction is warranted in this serious
matter.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The tenancy between
the Landlord and the Tenant is terminated, as of January 31, 2022.
The Tenant must move out of the rental unit on or before January 31, 2022.




 
2.    
If the Tenant does not move out of
the rental unit on or before January 31, 2022, the Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord $32.88 per day for compensation for the use of the unit from February 1, 2022 to the date
the Tenant moves out of the unit.
 
3.     The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing the application.
 
4.     If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before January
31, 2022, the Tenant will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from February 1, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
5.     If the unit is not vacated on or before
January 31, 2022,
then starting February
1, 2022, the Landlord may
file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the
eviction may be enforced.
 
6.     Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after February
1, 2022. The Sheriff is requested to expedite the enforcement
of this order.
 
 
 
 
 
January 26, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction
expires on August 1, 2022 if the order
has not been filed on or before
this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

