Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-02
File number:	
TEL-19208-21

Citation:	Grandy v Chupa, 2022 CanLII 87361 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2sr>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-19208-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


2869 THORNTON ROAD NORTH OSHAWA
  ON L1H7K4


 




Between:


Christine Grandy


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Barbara Chupa
  Randy Chupa


Tenants



 
 
 
Christine Grandy (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Barbara Chupa and Randy Chupa (the
'Tenants') because they, another occupant of the rental unit or someone they
permitted in the residential complex have substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or another
tenant.
 
This application was heard by video conference on January 11, 2022.
 
The Landlord’s agent, B. Fraser, the Landlord’s legal representative, J. Annen,
and the Tenants attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Landlord served the Tenants with an N5 notice of
termination, alleging two dates in June and July, 2021, when the Tenants
had refused entry to the Landlord despite
having proper 24 hours’ notice.
 
2.    
The Landlord’s agent, B. Fraser (BF) is the Landlord’s daughter. BF said that her father passed away, and her mother had to
transfer the insurance for the residential complex into her own name. She said that the Landlord was required to
inspect the electrical panels and oil tank,
and to take photographs for the insurance in order to transfer it into her mother’s
name.
 
3.    
BF said that proper 24 hours’ notice was provided to the Tenants
before June 24 and July 13, 2021. Nevertheless, she said that the Tenants would not permit the
Landlord or the Landlord’s agent to take the required photographs.
 
4.     The Tenants said that the Landlord did not send the right
person to take the photographs. They said that they were
told by the “LTB office” that they did not have to permit the




 
Landlord to take photographs. The Tenants said that they had provided
everything the Landlord
required to update their insurance.
 
Reasons and Analysis:
 
5.    
Subsection 27(1) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) provides that a landlord may enter a rental unit in accordance with written notice given to the tenant at
least 24 hours before the time of entry under the following circumstances:
 
1.   
To carry out a repair or replacement or do work in the rental unit.
2.   
To allow a potential mortgagee or insurer
of the residential complex to view the rental
unit.
3.   
To allow a person
who holds a certificate of authorization within
the meaning of the Professional Engineers Act or
a certificate of practice within the meaning of
the Architects Act or
another qualified person
to make a physical inspection of the rental unit to satisfy a requirement
imposed under subsection 9 (4) of the Condominium Act, 1998.
4.   
To carry out an inspection of the rental
unit, if,
 
i.  
the inspection is for the purpose
of determining whether or not the rental unit is in a good state of repair and
fit for habitation and complies with health, safety, housing and maintenance standards, consistent with the landlord’s obligations under subsection 20 (1)
or section 161, and
 
ii.   
it is reasonable to carry out the inspection.
 
5.   
For any other reasonable reason for entry specified in the tenancy
agreement.
 
6.     It is undisputed that the Landlord
provided proper written
notice at least 24 hours before
the time of entry. It is undisputed
that the Tenants provided entry to the Landlord, but they did not permit the
Landlord to take photographs to provide to their insurer.
 
7.     Although subsection 27(1) of the Act relates to entry,
and it is silent about taking photographs per se, I find that the
Landlord’s purpose for entry was a permitted one that is specifically mentioned
in subsection 27(1)2, wherein entry is permitted to allow a potential insurer
to view the rental unit, and subsection 27(1)4,
where entry is permitted in order to determine whether the rental
unit is in a good state of repair. Neither
party presented a lease agreement to prove whether or not entry for the
purposes of taking photographs for insurance was specified in the tenancy
agreement.
 
8.     Taking photographs of the electrical panel and oil tank for the purposes
of insurance is a reasonable way to allow a potential
insurer to view the rental unit. In
order to take out insurance on a rental property, any insurer would require the
Landlord to prove whether the rental unit was in a good state of repair, and it
is reasonable for a Landlord to take photographic evidence of the state of
repair of the rental unit.




 
 
 
9.    
It is undisputed that the Tenants
specifically refused permission to the Landlord to take photographs of the electrical panel and oil tank. The Landlord did not seek to photograph any of the Tenants’
personal belongings, and the Tenants
did not allege
that the Landlord sought to take such photographs.
 
10.  Consequently, I find that the Tenants’ refusal
to permit photographs for insurance was not
reasonable, and it was in contravention of the Act. I find that it was a substantial interference with a lawful
right, interest or privilege of the Landlord, i.e. the Landlord’s ability to
acquire insurance on the residential complex.
It seems to have been the result of a misunderstanding on the part of
the Tenants.
 
11.  The Landlord requests
termination. However, the tenancy is a lengthy
one of 22 years, and there
was no other allegation of the Tenants’ substantially interfering with the
reasonable enjoyment of the Landlord or any other right, interest or privilege
of the Landlord.
 
12.  Termination is not merited here. It is more appropriate that the Tenants
permit entry to the Landlord for the purposes of taking
photos for insurance.
 
13.  I find, on a balance
of probabilities, that the Tenants,
an occupant of the Tenants’
rental unit or a person permitted
in the residential complex by the Tenants
have unreasonably refused the
Landlord the opportunity to take photographs for their insurer.
 
14.  This conduct substantially interferes with a lawful right,
privilege or interest
of the Landlord.
 
15.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances
above in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would
not be unfair to grant relief from eviction subject to the conditions set out
in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1) of the Act.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Tenants shall permit access
to the rental unit for the purposes
of taking photographs for insurance upon receipt of
proper written 24 hours’ notice.
 
2.     If the Tenants fail to comply with paragraph one of
this order, the Landlord may apply under section 78 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’),
within 30 days of the breach, without notice to the Tenants,
for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenants.
 
3.     The Tenants shall pay to the Landlord
$201.00 for the cost of filing the application, as follows:
 
(a)  
$67.00 on or before
February 15, 2022,
(b)  
$67.00 on or before
March 15, 2022,




 
(c)  
$67.00 on or before April 15, 2022.
 
4.     If the Tenants
do not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before
April 15, 2022, they will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from April 16, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
 
 
 
 
February 2, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

