Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-02
File number:	
TEL-20290-21

Citation:	Reijns v Mackinnon, 2022 CanLII 87331 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2t2>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-20290-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


B, 176
FOSTER AVENUE BELLEVILLE ON K8N3P9


 




Between:


Annie Reijns


Landlord




 


and


 




 


Erin Mackinnon Madison Trumble


Tenants



 
 
 
Annie Reijns (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Madison Trumble and Erin Mackinnon
(the 'Tenants') because
they, another occupant
of the rental unit or someone they permitted in the
residential complex have wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the
premises. The Landlord has also applied for an order requiring the Tenants to
compensate the Landlord for the damage.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on January 25, 2022.
The Landlord and the Tenants attended the hearing.
The Tenant, Erin Mackinnon, spoke with Duty Counsel prior to the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
As a preliminary issue the Landlord
advised that she wanted to withdraw the $1,186.50
claim with respect to repair
and repainting of the drywall.
Therefore, this application will proceed only on the issue of damage to the glass-top stove
in the amount of $949.18.
 
2.     For the reasons
that follow, I find the Tenants did not willfully
or negligently cause undue
damage to the rental unit, specifically to the glass-top stove.
 
3.     The Tenants were in possession of the rental unit at
the time the application was filed. The Tenants have since vacated;
Madison Trumble vacated
September 1, 202 and Erin Mackinnon vacated November 24, 2021.
 
Evidence
 
4.     The Landlord testified
that on August 25, 2021 during a pre move-out
inspection, she saw the corner of the glass-top stove was
broken. On September 5, 2021, she wrote a letter to the Tenant, Erin Mackinnon (EM) requesting she pay $949.18,
the cost the Landlord




 
was going to incur to replace
the stove top. EM responded in a letter dated September 20, 2021 that she was not
paying for a replacement stove; it was not damage, in February 2021 a bowl
slipped out of her hand when she was removing it from the microwave. The
letters and pictures of the stove top showing a broken corner were entered into
evidence.
 
5.     The Landlord also testified that the stove top was installed in December 2021, it was delayed due to delays in shipping. The
Invoice from Home Depot in the amount of
$949.18 was entered into evidence.
 
6.     The Landlord submitted that EM should have take more
care when removing a hot bowl from the microwave, therefore it meets the test of damage due to negligence. EM was not holding the hot bowl carefully enough
to endure it would not slip from her hands.
 
7.     EM testified that she told the Landlord about the
incident after it happened, she also sent the
Landlord pictures of the cut to her finger and the resulting stitches. EM denied
that the bowl was hot; it
just slipped out of her hands. Further, the Landlord did not consider the
broken piece at the corner of the stove top an issue until she put the house up
for sale; the application should be dismissed because it was an accident, not
willful or negligent damage. The pictures sent to the Landlord were entered into
evidence; the pictures w dated February 3, 2021.
 
Analysis
 
8.     As the Tenant
has vacated the rental unit this application is now based on
Section 89(1) of the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).
 
9.    
Section 89(1) of the Act states that a Landlord may apply to the Board
for an order requiring a
Tenant to pay reasonable costs that the Landlord has incurred
or will incur for the repair of or, where repairing is not
reasonable, the replacement of damaged property, if the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or a person whom the Tenant permits in the
residential complex willfully or negligently causes undue damage to the rental
unit or the residential complex and the Tenant is in possession of the rental
unit.
 
10.    To be successful on a claim for damages the Landlords
must prove on a balance of probabilities that the damage claimed is “undue”.
There is no definition in the Act of “undue”, but it is fair to say that it
means “out of the ordinary” or “not wear and tear caused by ordinary usage.”
The Landlord must also establish that the Tenant, an occupant or a guest
either willfully or negligently caused the damage.
If the Landlords establish undue damage which was caused willfully or
negligently then the Landlords must lead sufficient evidence to show what the
reasonable cost of repair is.
 
11.  Here, the damage complained of was that the corner of
the glass stove top broke off when EM dropped
a bowl while removing it from the microwave. I consider this type of damage to be beyond that of reasonable
wear and tear, due to part of the stove being broken off; as such it meets the
definition of ‘undue damage’.




 
12.  However, I do not find that the damage was caused due
to willful or negligent behaviour. EM testified that the bowl accidentally
slipped out of her hand when she was removing it from the microwave, she denied the Landlord’s assumption that she dropped
it because it was too hot. There was no evidence
provided to support a finding that this was anything other than an accident.
 
13.  The dictionary definition of ‘accident’ from Oxford
Languages is “an unfortunate incident that happens unexpectedly and unintentionally, typically resulting in damage
or injury”. It is
also referred to an “an event that happens by chance or that is without
apparent or deliberate cause”. Both of these definitions fit the incident at
hand; the bowl slipped from EM’s hand, this was both unintentional and
unintended. As such, it was neither willful nor negligent conduct that caused
the damage, therefore the Landlord’s application must be dismissed. An order
will issue for same.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.   
The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
 
February 2, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Diane Wade
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

