Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-02
File number:	
TEL-20176-21

Citation:	Yacoub v Halvorsen, 2022 CanLII 87362 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2t1>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-20176-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


UPPER UNIT/FLOOR, 145 TULLOCH DRIVE AJAX ON L1S2S7


 




Between:


Chamoun Yacoub


Landlord




 


and


 




 


Erik Halvorsen
  Lisa Bell


Tenants



 
 
 
Chamoun Yacoub (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Erik Halvorsen and Lisa Bill (the
'Tenants') because they, another occupant of the rental unit or someone they
permitted in the residential complex have wilfully or negligently caused undue
damage to the premises. The Landlord
has also applied for an order
requiring the Tenants to compensate the Landlord for the damage.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on January 25, 2022.
 
The Landlord, the Landlord's Legal Representative, Farida
Salim, and the Tenants
attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Issues
 
1.     The Tenant’s name, Lisa Bell, is amended
as above.
 
2.     The N5 notice of eviction included issues with respect
to the backyard and sheds “between 2018 to date”. The Landlord's Legal Representative submitted
that there is
sufficient detail as the Tenants
received a letter from the Landlord on August 23, 2-21 which was prior to the N5, and one before then,
saying something needed
done with the yard.
 
3.    
The Tenants testified that they did not receive
any letters from the Landlord, only the letter from the lawyer
which was after
the N5; they did not understand what would be required of them to void the N5
notice.
 
4.     In Ball v. Metro Capital Property, [2002] O.J.
No. 5931, the court held that notices of termination must contain specific
details as to the behaviour complained of including dates and times of that behaviour in order for the tenant to know the case they have to




 
meet. I find that based on the
Tenants testimony, on a balance of probabilities the Tenants did not know the case they had to meet du to the lack of details.
As such this part of the notice is dismissed and only the incident with
respect to the tree being removed on or around September 20, 2021 will proceed
to a merits hearing.
 
5.     The notice also indicated that the Tenants
caused willful or negligent undue
damage, but no dollar amount
was indicated. The Landlord's Legal Representative submitted that the damage
was the removal of the tree and there was no dollar cost involved. The
submission was accepted and the issue of damage will be addressed at the merits
hearing.
 
Merits
 
6.     For the reasons
that follow I find the Tenants did not substantially interfere with the Landlord’s reasonable enjoyment or
wilfully or negligently cause undie damage.
 
7.     The application is based on a N5 notice of termination
served to the Tenants September 7, 2021. The termination date on the notice was October 15, 2021. The notice set out that the Tenants substantially interfered
with the Landlord and caused damage to the rental unit by having caused a live
tree on the property to be cut down.
 
8.     The Tenants are in possession of the rental unit.
 
9.     The Landlord testified that on or around September 20,
2021, he went to the rental property ad saw that the old tree on the front lawn had been cut down.
He spoke to the
City and was told that the Tenants had complained. He was shocked that the City
just went and cut the tree down without telling him; the tree was about 75
years old and added value and shade to the property. Further, the Tenants had
never complained to him about the tree.
 
10.  The Landlord's Legal Representative submitted that the
Tenants causing the tree to be cut down substantially interfered with the
Landlord and damaged the property because it took away shade and devalued the
property. The Landlord should have been told there was a problem with the tree,
not just have it removed without his knowledge or permission. The Landlord is seeking termination of the tenancy
because this incident
has broken his trust of the Tenants.
 
11.  The Tenant, Lisa Bell (LB), testified that in October 2017 a large branch fell from the tree and landed on her car,
damaging it. She called the City and they came and inspected. The City paid for the damage to her car, they also determined that the tree was dead and
removed it. The City did this of their own accord, she did not ask them to cut
the tree down. The City has also cut other trees on the road that were
considered dead and replaced them with a new tree, as they did at the rental
property. LB also testified that she did not tell the Landlord about the
incident with her car because it had nothing to do with him; the City covered
the damage to her car. The Landlord’s application should be dismissed.
 
Analysis




 
12.  Section 64 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’)
states:
 
(1)   A
landlord may give a tenant
notice of termination of the tenancy
if the conduct of the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a
person permitted in the residential complex by the tenant is such that it
substantially interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the residential
complex for all usual purposes by the landlord or another tenant or
substantially interferes with another lawful right, privilege or interest of
the landlord or another tenant.
 
(3) The notice of termination under
subsection (1) is void if the tenant,
within seven days after
receiving the notice, stops the conduct or activity or corrects the omission.
 
13.  Section 62 of the Act states:
 
(1)    
A landlord may give a tenant
notice of termination of the tenancy if the tenant, another occupant of the
rental unit or a person whom the tenant permits in the residential complex wilfully or negligently causes undue damage to the rental unit or the residential complex. 2006,
c. 17, s. 62 (1).
 
(2)    
A
notice of termination under this section
shall,
(a)   provide a termination date not
earlier than the 20th day after the notice is given;
(b)  
set out the grounds
for termination; and
(c)  
require the tenant, within
seven days,
(i)  to repair the damaged property
or pay to the landlord
the reasonable costs of
repairing the damaged property, or
(ii)      to replace the damaged property or pay to the landlord
the reasonable costs of replacing the damaged property, if it is not reasonable
to repair the damaged property.
 
(3)    
The notice of termination under
this section is void if the tenant, within seven days after receiving the notice, complies
with the requirement referred to in clause
(2) (c) or makes arrangements
satisfactory to the landlord to comply with that
requirement.
 
14.  Here, the conduct complained of is that the Tenants
caused the tree to be cut down which resulted in substantial interference to the Landlord
and constitutes damaging
the rental property.
 
15.  Based on the evidence and testimony before me I find on a balance
of probabilities, that although the tree was on the rental
property it was considered part of the easement whereby the City is responsible for it. If it was not the City’s tree, then the City
would not




 
have cut it down or paid for the
damage to LB’s car when the branch fell. The Tenants cannot be held liable
for the City’s
actions, specifically the cutting of the tree.
Further, that the City did not advise the Landlord that they were
cutting the tree, is between the Landlord and the City; this is not the
Tenants’ responsibility and it is not within the Board’s jurisdiction to determine whether the City had an
obligation to advise the Landlord.
 
16.  Therefore, based on my finding
that the Tenants
are not liable for the City’s
actions, the Landlord’s
application must be dismissed.
 
17.  This order contains
all the reasons for the decision within
it. No further reasons shall be
issued.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
 
February 2, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Diane Wade
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

