Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-12
File number:	
TEL-00568-19

Citation:	TEL-00568-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 57956 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq2vw>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-00568-19
 
 
 
 
 
BC (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict GR (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant,
another occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the
residential complex has wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the
premises. The Landlord has also applied for an order requiring the Tenant to
compensate the Landlord for the damage. The Landlord also claimed compensation
for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 26, 2021.
 
The Landlord, the Tenant and the Tenant’s
Representative C. L attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Landlord served the
Tenant with a Form N5 on April 5, 2019, seeking eviction on the basis the
Tenant has wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the rental unit or
residential complex, and on the basis the Tenant’s behaviour has substantially
interfered with another tenant’s or the Landlord’s reasonable enjoyment of the
residential complex and/or lawful rights, privileges, or interests.
 
2.     In addition to seeking the Tenant’s eviction
from the unit, the Landlord’s L2 application seeks $1,000.00 in damages from
the Tenant for the repair or replacement cost of the alleged damaged property.
 
Form N5
 
3.    
A preliminary matter was raised
that the Landlord’s Form N5 is defective due to lack of
particulars.




 
4.    
Subsection 43(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the “Act”) provides that
a notice of termination must set out
the reasons and details respecting the termination. Pursuant to the Divisional
Court’s decision in Ball v. Metro Capital Property, [2002] O.J. No.
5931, a notice that fails to provide
sufficient details is void.
 
5.    
The Landlord’s Form N5
fails to state whether the Tenant is entitled to the 7-day remedial period to correct the behavior
or whether the Landlord can immediately apply for an eviction order. Further the Form N5 fails to provide
sufficient particulars of the events that
have led to the service of the notice. At
a minimum, a notice must inform the Tenant of the dates and times of the
alleged conduct. Here, the Landlord’s Form N5 merely provides a vague
description of events that occurred “Over the Last Four Years”. This is insufficient and the lack of
particulars fail to advise the Tenant of the case to be met.
 
6.     The Landlord’s application for eviction must fail as a result
of a defective Form N5.
 
Damages
 
7.     The Landlord’s L2 application seeks
$1,000.00 in damages from the Tenant for the repair or replacement cost of the
alleged damaged property.
 
8.    
Section
89 of the Act allows a landlord to apply to the Board for an order
requiring a tenant to pay reasonable
costs that the landlord has incurred or will incur
for the repair of, or
where repairing is not reasonable, the replacement of damaged property, if the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person whom
the tenant permits in the residential complex wilfully or negligently causes
undue damage to the rental unit or
the residential complex and the tenant is in possession of the rental unit.
 
9.    
To
succeed on the damages claim, the Landlord must show that the damage is
“undue”, meaning it is beyond normal wear and tear, and considered to be
excessive or unnecessary.
 
10.  The
Landlord submitted that the entire unit has to be cleaned and repainted due to
nicotine damage and that the floor needs to be replaced due to water damage.
Nicotine
 
11. 
With
respect to the first allegation, the Landlord stated the Tenant smokes in the
unit and produced pictures of the interior walls, the interior door, the
microwave and the sink faucet. The
pictures show some staining which would benefit from cleaning or painting,
however, on cross-examination the Landlord conceded the rental unit was not
newly painted when the Tenant moved into the property over 5 years ago.
 
12. 
The
Tenant testified the Landlord was well aware that he smokes from time to time
in the unit when he is unable to go outside, and further submitted there is no
lease condition prohibiting him from smoking. I find the Tenant’s submission believable on this point,




 
especially considering the Landlord had previously reimbursed the Tenant for an air purifier.
 
13. 
While
the rental unit certainly appears to be very cluttered and in need in cleaning,
I do not find on a balance of probabilities that the damage is
“undue” and beyond normal wear and tear, given the length of time
of the tenancy and the lack of evidence as to the condition of the interior
walls, the interior door, the microwave and the sink faucet at the commencement
of the tenancy.
Water Damage
 
14. 
With
respect to the alleged water damage on the hardwood floors, insufficient
evidence was presented by the Landlord in support of this allegation. The Landlord did not produce any witnesses, invoices/estimates,
or pictures to substantiate the alleged condition of the flooring
or his claim for damages.  The Tenant denied
the floors need to
be replaced and regardless, stated any water that may have dripped on the floor
was caused by an air condition leak.
 
15. 
For
these reasons, I do not find on a balance of probabilities that there was
damage to the floors, or that any
damage was caused by the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a
person whom the tenant permits in the residential complex. This portion of the Landlord’s application
must therefore fail.
It is ordered that:
 
16.  The Landlord's application is dismissed.












January 12, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Peter
Nicholson
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland
Avenue, Unit 2 Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

