Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-02
File number:	
TEL-19078-21

Citation:	White v Brown, 2022 CanLII 87156 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2k9>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-19078-21
 
 



In the
  matter of:


#1 (LOWER
UNIT), 230 MEDINA
COURT OSHAWA ON L1J7E1


 




Between:


Kurt
  White


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Michelle Palneau Brown


Tenant



 
 
 
Kurt White (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Michelle Palneau Brown
(the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or
someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully
or negligently caused
undue damage to the premises. The Landlord has also applied for an order
requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlord for the damage; because the
Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in
the residential complex has wilfully caused undue damage to the premises. The Landlord has also applied for an order
requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlord for the damage; and because the
Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person the Tenant permitted in
the residential complex has seriously impaired the safety of any person.
The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant
remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard in Passcode: 956 0593 7653# on January
25, 2022. The Landlord,
represented by Victoria Polyakevich, and the Tenant, attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The Landlord served an N7 notice on the Tenant
alleging the Tenant has seriously impaired the safety
of another person and using the residential complex in a manner that has caused or can be expected to
cause serious damage. This notice was
served because the Tenant put a pile of her belongings in the outdoor area
designated for another tenant.
 
2.    
I
am not satisfied that the presence of the Tenant’s
belongings as described in the notice is inherently dangerous to the
safety of the Landlord or the
Tenants as required in an N7 notice to terminate a tenancy.
 
3.    
The Landlord also served an N5 notice on the Tenant claiming that the Tenant has noisy parties late at night.




 
4.    
The Landlord served a 2nd N5 notice on the Tenant
claiming the same issue related to garbage and belongings around the complex
as in the N7 notice served on the Tenant, as well as a parking issue and
smoking on the premises.
 
5.     The tenancy agreement states there is no smoking
in the rental unit. The Landlord called Erin Slater to testify to the smoking. The
witness testified that she is not sure the Tenant smoking.
 
6.     The Tenant testified that she quite smoking one year ago and does not smoke in her unit.
 
7.     I am not satisfied the Tenant has been smoking
in the rental unit.
 
8.     The Tenant testified that she has removed all the
garbage bags and items shown in a photograph
entered as evidence
by the Landlord. The Tenant
testified that these items
out for garbage and some were clothing she was donating to charity.
 
9.     The Landlord’s representative asked the Tenant to go
outside and take a picture of the current state of garbage on the property
of the residential complex. The Tenant took her
phone outside and provided a live feed of the area. There was no evidence that there were garbage bags or any other
items in the area nor that that it would substantially interfere with
reasonable enjoyment.
 
10. 
The 2nd N5 notice makes no reference to noise and because a 2nd notice was served, I find the Tenant voided the first notice.
The Landlord’s representative refers to 3rd and 4th N5 notices served on the Tenant.
 
11. 
The Landlord filed
this application based on two N5 notices which the Residential Tenancies Act
provides for. Considering the
fact the 1st N5 was voided and the 2nd N5 does not establish substantial interference with reasonable enjoyment, the 3rd and 4th N5 notice, which are not provided for under the Act, can at
best be used as evidence. However, that evidence
could only be used to substantiate the ongoing behaviour
after a finding of substantial
interference with reasonable enjoyment has been found.
 
12.  The residential complex is a home with a tenant on the
main level and another tenant upstairs. The
home also has a front and back yard. The testimony from
both the Tenant and the Landlord
shows that the Landlord has locked
the back gate and discontinued the Tenant’s access
to the back yard. It is the Landlord’s and the Landlord’s representative’s position that the backyard is not a part of
the tenancy agreement.
 
13.  It is clear from
the submissions on this issue that there is an ongoing dispute
between the parties which also make me question the content of the N5 notices served on the
Tenant.
 
14.  At the hearing
the Tenant agreed
to an order that she not leave excessive garbage
in the common area. This order establishes this agreement by
the Tenant.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord's application is dismissed.




 
 
 

February 2, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Greg Joy
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

