Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-12
File number:	
TEL-18240-21

Citation:	Khan v Jones, 2022 CanLII 57911 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq2w6>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-18240-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


UNIT 1, 399 PINE AVENUE OSHAWA ON L1J2J1


 




Between:


Leila Noreen Khan Leonardo Dino Biondo


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Aysha
(Elenore) Jones


Tenant



 
 
 
 
Leila Noreen
Khan and Leonardo
Dino Biondo (the 'Landlords') applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Aysha
(Elenore) Jones (the 'Tenant') because the Landlord requires possession of the
rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation.
 
This application was heard by video conference on December 10, 2021.
 
The Landlords, the Landlords’ legal representative, B. Di Lisi, and
the Tenant attended
the hearing. The Tenant spoke
to Tenant Duty Counsel prior to the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Landlords are
business partners. Both Landlords
submitted to the Board Declarations that stated
that L. Biondo
(LB) was moving
into the rental
unit for a minimum
of one year. Both Landlords also
stated that they had not served a previous N12 notice of termination on the
Tenant in the past two years.
 
2.    
The termination date on the N12 notice
of termination was September 30, 2021, and the
Tenant did not move out on that date. The
Tenant was still in possession of the rental unit on the date of the hearing.
 
3.    
The monthly
rent is $850.00.
 
Preliminary Issues:
4.    
The Tenant raised two preliminary issues.
She said that the address
on the N12 notice of termination was not correct, and she
was not given compensation equal to one month’s rent, in contravention of
sections 48.1 and 55.1 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’).




 
 
 
5.    
The Tenant said that the postal
code listed on the N12 notice of termination was not
correct.
 
6.    
The Tenant also said
that the Landlords did not give her compensation equal to one month’s rent. Instead, she said they refused to accept the monthly rent for August,
2021.
 
7.    
The Landlords said that the postal code listed on the N12 notice of termination was the
postal code from google maps, and it is the postal code listed on all the
paperwork related to the property.
 
8.    
I find that the Tenant failed to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that the postal
code on the N12 notice of
termination was not correct. The
postal code on the N12 notice of termination matched google maps. In addition, the Tenant did not allege
that the notice or the application had gone astray, or that she had not
received it because of the incorrect postal code. Consequently, I find that the N12 notice of termination was in
substantial compliance with the requirements of the Act for notices of
termination.
 
9.    
Sections 48.1 and 55.1
of the Act oblige a Landlord to compensate a Tenant in the amount equal to one
month’s rent when a Landlord serves a Tenant a notice of termination of the tenancy
under section 48. The Act is
silent about the form or means of paying the required compensation. Refusing to accept a month’s rent is
equivalent to compensating the Tenant a month’s rent. The Landlords refused a month’s rent prior to the termination
date of September 30, 2021. Consequently,
I find that the Landlords complied with sections 48.1 and 55.1 of the Act.
 
10.  The rental unit is the basement apartment
in a duplex.
 
11.  The Landlord, LB, said that when the Landlords purchased
the residential complex
on November 6, 2020, it was an illegal triplex. He said that the Landlords have now converted the residential
complex into a legal duplex.
 
12.  LB said that he is presently separated from his wife,
and he is staying temporarily with his business
partner, the other Landlord, L. Khan (LK).
 
13.  LB said that he vacated
his marital home on November
1, 2021, and he wants to move into the rental unit as soon as
possible. He said that he intends to
stay there for the foreseeable future.
 
14.  LB submitted into evidence a letter from Jason Lane of Woitzik
Polsinelli Lawyers and Mediators, dated December 3, 2021,
that stated that LB had consulted with him “regarding the matrimonial matters
between Dino and Irene Biondo, specifically with regard to Dino vacating the
matrimonial home….”
 
15.  LB said that his matrimonial home is in
Stouffville. He said that even though
the rental unit is in Oshawa, it does not matter where
he is based since he is a home inspector who travels all over for his profession. He said that besides the matrimonial home, he has a cottage way
up north to which it is impractical to move.
He said that his home




 
inspections are carried out from Hamilton
to Port Hope, but he mostly works in the Durham area.
 
16.  The Tenant challenged the LB’s good faith intention
to move into the rental
unit.
 
17.  The Tenant said that LB has harassed her
and tried to evict her since before he owned the residential complex. She said that LB was “involved” with the previous
Landlord, and he told her that
her rent is too low, and she said that he has threatened to serve her with an
N12 notice of termination on multiple occasions.
 
18.  The Tenant submitted into evidence multiple
pages of notes that recounted her recollections of events that occurred over
the previous year. She referred to
one of the pages of notes
that were recollections from September 23, 2020, the day she observed a “sold”
sign on the lawn of the residential complex. The Tenant
said that earlier
in the day there was severe pounding and banging on her front door,
and someone yelled that she, the Tenant, was insane. The Tenant said that this was “later revealed to be Khan”, i.e.
one of the Landlords.
 
19.  The Tenant said that on June 16, 2021, LB
called her on the phone and said that her rental unit was overcrowded because the father of her child was living with her. She said
that LB threatened to serve her with an N12 notice of termination at that time.
 
20.  The Tenant said that there were a number of
times in September and October, 2020, when the Landlords told her they were the owners of the residential complex, and acted as Landlords, even though they had
not yet purchased the building. She
said that they treated her with “complete negativity and unnecessary
harshness”. She said that they kept telling
the father of her child
that he had to remove
his dog from the premises, they called him her “boyfriend” and they laughed at her and the
father of her child.
 
21.  The Tenant said that the Landlords came to
her window, which faces the backyard, on many
occasions. She said that they peered in her windows.
She also said that they had tricked her into clearning out all her
belongings from the backyard.
 
22.  The Tenant said that she had informed LB
that she was very allergic to cats before he rented the upstairs unit to people who had two cats. She
submitted into evidence a letter from
her doctor, dated July 25, 2021, that is addressed to the Tenant. The letter states that the Tenant suffers
from severe allergies
and asthma. The Tenant said that she gave
the letter to LB by hand, but he refused to look at it.
 
23.  The Tenant said that she has lived in the
rental unit since May 2019, and she has been looking for an alternative place to live for a long time. She said that it is impossible to find anything
within her budget. She said that her
income is currently $1,100.00 social assistance and $1,800.00 child tax credit. The monthly rent is $850.00.
 
24.  The Landlords submit that LB intends to
move into the rental unit. They
submit that LB chose the basement
rental unit, because
the upstairs unit is bigger,
and it is not needed for LB on his own. The Landlords submit that LB’s marriage
broke down over the last year, and he is currently homeless. He requires the rental unit as his
residence.




 
 
 
25.  The Tenant submits that LB does not, in
good faith, intend to move into the rental unit. She submits that the Landlords intend
to raise the rent and get more income from her unit after she moves out. The Tenant submits that it makes no sense
for LB to move into a 1 bedroom basement apartment with all his other
properties.
 
Reasons and Analysis:
26.  The issue to be determined by the Board is
whether the Landlord has satisfied the “good faith” requirement set out in subsection 48(1) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006, (the 'Act') which provides: a landlord
may, by notice, terminate a tenancy if the landlord in good faith requires
possession of the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation by,
 
(a)  
the landlord
 
(b)  
the landlord’s spouse
 
(c)  
a child
or parent of the landlord
or the landlord’s spouse; or
 
(d)  
a person
who provides or will provide
care services………….
 
27.  In the leading case law involving a
landlord’s own use application, Salter v. Beljinac, 2001 CanLII 40231 (ON SCDC), [2001], O.J. No. 2792 (Div. Ct.), a case in which the Landlord
filed the application on the basis that he required
possession of the rental unit for purpose
of residential occupation by his adult son and the son’s
family, the Divisional Court held that:
 
the test of good faith is genuine intention
to occupy the premises and not the reasonableness of the landlord’s
proposal…
 
28.  The case law in this area establishes that
the test is determined by considering the intention of the person
named in the application. If that person
genuinely intends to reside
in the unit then the notice is given in good faith.
 
29.  The Landlord in this case, LB, lived with his wife in a large home in Stouffville. He also
owns a country property up north. The
rental unit is a 1 bedroom basement unit in Oshawa, about 50 km away from
Stouffville.
 
30. 
Although it makes sense for LB to live in a property he owns, rather
than to rent a new one, his proposal to move that far
away from his family to live in a basement does not appear to be that
reasonable.
 
31. 
The Tenant
gave vague testimony about the Landlords negativity and harshness
towards her. She said they harassed
her, and they tried to evict her. She had no
documents and no prior notices
of termination to support her allegations.
 
32. 
It is undisputed that the Landlords
began acting as Landlords before
they, in fact, owned
the residential complex. However,
that alone does not support the Tenant’s allegation




 
that the Landlords harassed
her, nor that LB does not intend,
in good faith,
to move into the rental unit.
 
33.  The Tenant also has the option of filing a Tenant application claiming that the Landlords
harassed her.
 
34.  LB had documentary evidence of consultation with a lawyer about his marital issues.
The Tenant pointed out that the date of the letter, December 3, 2021,
was just prior to the hearing date, and it was after the Landlords had received
her disclosure for the hearing. The Tenant said that LB would have submitted
such a letter long before December 3, 2021, in order to support the
application, if he were genuinely intending to move into the rental unit
because he was separating from his wife.
 
35.  The Tenant’s evidence primarily focused on
harassment by the Landlords, and it was very vague and ungrounded by documentary evidence. Tenants frequently do not have a
good relationship with their Landlord. However,
even if there was harassment by the Landlords, it does not mean that LB does
not intend to move into the rental unit.
 
36.  I find that the Landlords
have proved, on balance of probabilities, that LB intends,
in good faith, to move into
the rental unit for the following reasons. It
is LB’s testimony that he separated from his wife and left the marital home,
and he can work anywhere in south western Ontario. LB said that he has a
lot of work in the Durham region
where the rental unit is located. A
basement apartment may not be the type of residence he is used to, but it
provides him a base for which he does not have to pay extra rent.
 
37.  Therefore,
I find that the Landlords in good faith require possession of the rental unit for
the purpose of residential occupation for LB.
 
38.  The Landlords paid the Tenant
compensation equal to one month's
rent on August 1, 2021.
 
39.  The Tenant said that she has been unable to find a rental unit on her budget. She has a very young child, and she lives on
social assistance. Although LB said
that he is homeless, he has been living with his business partner. I find that it is not unfair to provide
the Tenant longer to find an alternative place to live.
 
40.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to postpone the eviction until February 28, 2022, pursuant
to subsection 83(1)(b)
of the Act.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The tenancy
between the Landlords and the Tenant
is terminated, as of
February 28, 2022. The Tenant must
move out of the rental unit on or before February 28, 2022.




 
2.    
If the unit is not vacated
on or before February 28, 2022, then starting March 1, 2022, the Landlords may file this order with the
Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced.
 
3.    
Upon receipt
of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlords on or after March 1, 2022.
 
 
 
 
January 12, 2022 Date Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland
Avenue, Unit 2 Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires
on September 1, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this
date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial
jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.

