Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-12
File number:	
TEL-18915-21

Citation:	Kazmi v  Mckeown, 2022 CanLII 57957 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq2w8>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
77, 87(1) and 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-18915-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


135 LAPRADE SQUARE BOWMANVILLE ON L1C0C8


 




Between:


Qaisra Kazmi
  Shah Baqar


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Alanna
Mckeown Jason Miller


Tenants



 
 
 
Qaisra Kazmi and Shah Baqar (the 'Landlords') applied for an order
to terminate the tenancy and evict Alanna Mckeown and Jason Miller (the
'Tenants') because the Tenants entered into an agreement to terminate the
tenancy.
 
The Landlords also applied for an order requiring the Tenants to pay the rent that they owe.
 
The Landlords also applied for an order requiring the Tenants to pay compensation for the damages caused by them or a person they
permitted in the residential complex
 
This application was heard via videoconference on December 7, 2021.
The Landlords, the Landlord’s legal representative, Z. Rahman, and the Tenants
attended the hearing. The Tenants declined the opportunity to speak with Tenant
Duty Counsel before the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
L9 Application
 
1.    
The Landlords
applied for an order requiring
the Tenants to pay the rent that they owe. The Tenants did not pay the total
rent they were required to pay for the period from November 20, 2020 to August
19, 2021.
 
2.    
The Tenants
were in possession of the rental unit on the date the application was filed.
 
3.    
The lawful
monthly rent is $2,000.00.
 
4.    
The Landlords
are not holding a last month's rent
deposit.




 
5.    
The Tenants
have made no payments since the application was filed. A. McKeown testified that she paid the Landlords
$800.00 on or about December 2020 or January 2021. No documentary evidence was
submitted affirming the $800.00 payment. The Landlords denied receiving these
funds. Once a landlord denies receiving funds, the tenant has an evidentiary
burden to prove that she paid rent as only the tenant can prove payment as a
positive fact. Although the legal burden rests with the Landlords, I do not
find that the Tenants adduced evidence to counter or overcome the Landlords’
evidence.
 
6.    
The Tenants
shall pay to the Landlords
$26,201.00, representing arrears
of rent to the date of the hearing ($26,000.00) and the
application filing fee ($201.00).
 
 
L3 Application
 
7.    
The Landlords applied to terminate
the tenancy and evict the Tenants because
the Tenants entered an agreement to terminate the tenancy. There is no dispute that the parties
signed an N11 agreement to terminate the tenancy on July 3, 2021 effective
September 30, 2021.
 
8.    
This L3 application was
sent to a hearing. As I am satisfied
that the parties signed an agreement to terminate
the tenancy, the only issue before me is whether,
having regard to all
the circumstances, it would not be unfair
to refuse to grant relief from eviction pursuant to
subsection 83(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).
 
9.    
The N11 was presented
to the Tenants. The Schedule
A to the N11 set out various
terms. In brief, the parties agreed to the following terms:
 
•        
The Tenants
agreed to terminate the tenancy on September 30, 2021;
 
•        
The Tenants
agreed to a payment agreement
where they would pay a lump sum to
the Landlords on the 20th of the month commencing July 20, 2021 until the arrears were paid off in
full;
 
•        
The Landlords agreed to rent forgiveness for September 2021 and $3,460.95;
 
•        
The Tenants
also agreed to the cost of replacing
the stove at
$790.99.
 
•        
Should the tenants or occupants fail to vacate
by the termination date, the landlords
may commence an application for eviction through the Board, based on the full
arrears or otherwise.
 
10.  The Landlord testified that A. McKeown
negotiated the payment plan and the delayed termination date.
 
11.  The Tenants submitted that they felt they had
no other option but to sign. A. McKeown stated that emails were sent back and
forth with the Landlords’ legal representative and many revisions were made to the agreement. She stated that she was informed that if they were unable to come to an agreement,
the Landlords would proceed with eviction. She testified that she was in no
position to agree to the payment plan or the termination date




 
and informed the
Landlord as such. However, she agreed to sign to ensure she was not evicted.
 
Law and Analysis
 
Undue Influence
and Duress
 
12.   Section 77 of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) states that a landlord, may, without notice to the tenant,
apply to the Board for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the tenant
if the landlord and tenant have entered an agreement to terminate the tenancy.
13.   The issue before
me is whether the agreement
of July 3, 2021 between the parties is valid
or whether it should be dismissed as unenforceable on the basis of duress.
 
14.   I note that duress, by its legal definition, generally
involves inducement by way of unlawful
threats or improperly persuasive conduct
that must be applied to such a degree to amount
to “a coercion of the will”
 
15.  I do not find any of the Landlord’s legal
representative’s comments were unlawful threats or met the high threshold of
coercion of the will. In my view, the Landlords’ legal representative’s comments
was information regarding
the Landlords’ legal
rights to pursue eviction.
 
16.  Moreover, I find that the Tenants were not
led to believe they had no realistic alternative but to comply. I base this on the Tenants’ counterproposals regarding a payment plan and
the termination date in the N11. In my view, if the Tenants believed they had
no realistic alternative but to comply, they would not have believed they could
negotiate terms and conditions.
 
Section 202
 
17.  Section 202 requires the Board to ascertain
the real substance of the transactions and activities regarding the rental units at issue, and the good faith of the parties
to the N11. In consideration
of all of the circumstances, I find
that the offer to terminate the tenancy was in good faith. The Landlords
negotiated a payment plan in consideration of the Tenants’ difficulty paying
rent and offered a waiver of rent. The Tenants considered the Landlords’
proposals and in fact, proposed
a different payment
plan. The Tenants’
own evidence was that there were multiple revisions to
the agreement for which they signed.
 
Section 83(2) Considerations
 
18.  Having found that the parties
entered an agreement to terminate the tenancy, I turn now to
whether it would be unfair to grant relief from eviction.
 
19.  A. McKeown testified that because of COVID,
her and her husband have been unable to work. They are only in receipt of her
husband’s disability benefit of $2,400.00 per month and with five children, it is difficult
to pay rent and make other necessary
payments. A.




 
McKeown also testified to traumatic events that occurred
in their family
that led to them not paying the rent in full and on time.
They have been looking for units and submitted applications but have been
unsuccessful.
 
20.  The Landlord testified that they have been
severely impacted by the Tenants’ arrears. He has borrowed $20,000.00 from his
father to keep themselves afloat and have also experienced traumatic events in
their family.
 
21.  On a balance of probabilities, I find it
would be unfair to grant relief from eviction. The arrears are substantial, and
the Landlord has been financially impacted by the arrears. While I am sympathetic
to the Tenants’ issues, they had many opportunities to find alternative housing
before the termination date of September 30, 2021. As of the date of the
hearing, they still had not found alternative housing. It is unclear that a
longer delay would provide further relief.
 
L2 Application
 
22.  The Landlords applied for an order
requiring the Tenants to pay compensation for the damages caused by them or a
person they permitted in the residential complex.
 
23.  The Landlords’ application sought a total amount of $1,237.63 for damages to the stove in the unit and two water bills.
 
24.  The Landlords’ claim
for water bills
is denied. Unpaid utilities are not damages
and cannot satisfy the test
for compensation for damages contained in section 89. Utilities can be claimed
in L2 applications as utility costs pursuant to section 88.2(4). However, these
changes came into effect for applications filed on or after September 1, 2021.
Since the Landlords’ application was filed on August 6, they cannot be awarded
here.
 
25.  Regarding the stove, on a balance of
probabilities, I find that the Tenants or an occupant of the rental unit or a
person permitted in the residential complex by the Tenants have wilfully or
negligently caused undue damage to the rental unit by damaging the stove.
 
26.  It was uncontested that the stove was a
fixture included in the tenancy. The Landlords’ evidence was that on July 29,
2020, A. McKeown informed the Landlord that the glass stove top broke.
Submitted into evidence were text messages from the Tenant to the Landlord, including
photographs of the stove top. The photographs showed shattered glass and a large hole.
The Landlord informed
A. McKeown that he would replace the unit. In text
messages submitted into evidence, A. McKeown asked the Landlords to buy a new
stove and they would pay the Landlords back. However, the Tenants did not repay the Landlords.
 
27.  A. McKeown testified
that there is a cupboard
above the stove/microwave and a paint
can was located there. She was sitting in the living room when her daughter screamed. When she entered the
kitchen, she saw the paint can on the stove and the smashed stove top. She testified
that she did not know a paint can was located there as it did not belong to her
and she was not sure how it fell.




 
28.  Subsection 89(1) says:
 
A landlord may apply to the Board for an order requiring a tenant to
pay reasonable costs that the landlord has incurred or will incur
for the repair of or, where repairing
is not reasonable, the replacement of damaged property, if the tenant,
another occupant of the rental
unit or a person whom the tenant permits in the residential complex wilfully or
negligently causes undue damage to the rental unit or the residential complex
and the tenant is in possession of the rental unit.
 
29.  This wording means that a landlord must
establish that it is more likely than not that the tenant, an occupant or a
guest, wilfully or negligently caused each item of property damage claimed.
 
30.  I am not satisfied that the Tenants
wilfully caused damage
to the stove top. However,
I am satisfied that the Tenants
negligently caused damage.
While the Tenants
submitted that a paint can fell from a cupboard above
the stove, the photographs from the Tenants to the Landlord do not show a paint
can. Further, the Tenants requested
that the Landlords purchase a new stove and they would pay them back. One would
think that if something beyond the Tenants
control caused damage,
they would show the Landlords
the cause of the damage and refuse to pay to replace
it. However, that was not the case here.
 
31.  Submitted
into evidence was an invoice
from Paddy’s Market
in the amount of $790.99
for a new stove. In consideration of the damage demonstrated in the
photographs, I find that this amount to be reasonable.
 
It is ordered that:
 
Regarding the L3 Application:
 
1.    
The tenancy
between the Landlords and the Tenants
is terminated. The Tenants must move out of the rental unit on or
before January 23, 2022.
 
2.    
If the unit is not vacated
on or before January 23, 2022, then starting January
24, 2022, the Landlords may
file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the
eviction may be enforced.
 
3.    
Upon receipt
of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlords on or after January 24, 2022.
 
Regarding the L9 Application:
 
4.    
The Tenants
shall pay to the Landlords $26,000.00, which represents the amount of rent
owing up to December 31, 2021.
 
5.    
The Tenants
shall also pay to the Landlords $201.00
for the cost of filing
the application.




 
6.    
If the Tenants do not pay the Landlords
the full amount
owing on or before January 23, 2022, the Tenants will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from January 24, 2022 at 2.00% annually
on the balance outstanding.
 
Regarding the L2 Application:
 
7.    
The Tenants
shall pay to the Landlords $790.99, which represents the reasonable costs of replacing the damaged property.
 
8.    
If the Tenants do not
pay the Landlords the full amount owing on or before January 23, 2022, they will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from January 24, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
balance outstanding.
 
 
January 12, 2022 Date Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland
Avenue, Unit 2 Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

