Metadata:
Date:	2018-07-11
File number:	
TEL-91060-18-RV
	TEL-91060-18-RV
Citation:	TEL-91060-18-RV (Re), 2018 CanLII 113088 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hw9kh>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hw9kh
Content:


Order
under Section 21.2 of the 
Statutory
Powers Procedure Act 
and
the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File
Number: TEL-91060-18-RV
 











 



 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 



 

Review
Order
 
J.R. (the 'Landlord') applied for an order
to terminate the tenancy and evict A.L. and S.S. (the 'Tenants') because the
Tenants did not pay the rent that the Tenants owe. The Landlord also claimed
NSF cheque charges and related administration charges.
 
This application was resolved by order
TEL-91060-18 issued on June 29, 2018.
 
On July 9, 2018, the
Tenants requested a review of the order.
 
A preliminary review of
the review request was completed without a hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     
On the basis of the submissions
made in the request and for the following reasons, I am not satisfied that
there is a serious error in the order or that a serious error occurred in the
proceedings.
2.     
The request for review says:
There are 3
children with a single parent involved who will be homeless. We requested an
adjournment to seek legal counsel as we didn’t understand why the Landlords (sic)
application and our application were not being heard together as they pertain
directly to each other. We spoke to duty counsel and she even adviced (sic)
for it to be heard together.
3.     
Although this request for
review is not particularly clear, I take from this language that the Tenants
disagree with the Board’s decisions with respect to relief from eviction and
their adjournment request.
4.     
Decisions with respect to
relief from eviction and adjournment requests are discretionary decisions.
Pursuant to the Board’s Interpretation Guideline # 8 Relief from Eviction:
Orders granting
relief from eviction (RTA s. 83(1)) or awarding specific remedies involve an
exercise of the original hearing Member’s discretion and are entitled to
deference. The LTB will not exercise its discretion to review these types of
decisions where the result is within the range of reasonable, acceptable
outcomes.
5.     
Although the Interpretation
Guideline is not binding on me I can see no reason not to follow it in this
instance. What this means is the question for the Board on this request for
review is whether or not the decisions with respect to relief and the
adjournment request were unreasonable. 
6.     
The Landlord’s application
was not the only application before the Board concerning this tenancy. The
Tenant’s application contained in Board file TET-91045-18 was also on the
docket to be heard. At the beginning of the hearing block the Tenants indicated
they wished to ask for an adjournment of both files so they could seek legal
advice.
7.     
I have listened to the
entirety of the hearing recording that deals with the adjournment request. 
8.     
In canvassing the parties
with respect to the Tenants’ request for an adjournment the Member heard
evidence from the Tenants that they had attempted to send two e-transfers to
the Landlord in partial payment of the rent. 
9.     
It is clear from the hearing
recording that because of that evidence the Member was initially disposed to
grant the adjournment request. 
10.   During the course of the discussion concerning
the adjournment request the Landlord stated that he was willing to consent to
the adjournment if the Tenants paid what was outstanding less the amount claimed
in the Tenants’ application which was $800.00. The Tenants disagreed with the
Landlord stating the amount they were claiming was now more than that. I have
accessed the Board’s records with respect to the Tenants’ application and
confirm the Landlord was correct. The Tenants’ application seeks compensation
for out of pocket expenses in the amount of $800.00 only and no request to
amend that application has been filed with the Board to date. 
11.   The Member indicated she was prepared to grant
the adjournment request but was concerned about the quantum of rent owing and
wanted to discuss an interim order requiring payment to the Landlord. During
the conversation the Tenants stated they made attempts to pay to the Landlord
$1,500.00 and $1,700.00 by e-transfer but the transfers were refused. They
stated they could go out to their car and obtain proof. So the Member stood the
hearing down for an hour to permit them to gather their evidence. 
12.   When the hearing reconvened the Tenants were
unable to produce the alleged evidence. As a result of that, the Member was not
prepared to adjourn the Landlord’s application as the rent arrears were in
excess of $6,600.00. In essence she concluded the Tenants’ lack of credibility
with respect to the alleged payments meant they were not likely to comply with
an interim order for payment. As a result, she determined that adjourning the
Landlord’s application was too prejudicial to the Landlord, but if the Tenants
wanted an adjournment of their own application so they could get additional
legal advice she was prepared to grant that request. She also told the Tenants
they could raise any issue they wanted to that same day pursuant to s. 82 of
the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).  But the Tenants told
her they wanted legal representation for the hearing of their own issues. The
Landlord did not object so the Member granted the request to adjourn the
Tenants’ application to a date to be heard and proceeded to hear evidence and
submissions with respect to the Landlord’s application only.  
13.   The Member’s decision to refuse to adjourn the
Landlord’s application was clearly reasonable and within the normal range of
outcomes. The Tenants knew the issues to be met, they consulted with Tenant
Duty Counsel the day of the hearing, the arrears of rent were in excess of
$6,600.00, the Landlord was in financial distress, and the Tenants were found
to be not credible with respect to allegations of payments made. Most if not
all Board members in that situation would have similarly refused to adjourn the
Landlord’s application.
14.   Understandably tenants is this situation prefer
their own claims be heard simultaneously with a landlord’s claim for rent
arrears so they can obtain the benefit of any set off should their claims be
successful. That is one of the purposes of section 82 of the Act. 
15.   The Tenants in this situation were given a clear
choice: proceed today with your own claims to be heard with the Landlord’s
application or adjourn only the Tenants’ application to another day. If the
Tenants wanted their claims to be heard with the Landlords that day all they
had to do was say so. But instead, they chose the latter option so the Member
granted their request to adjourn the Tenants’ application. 
16.   Given all of the above, it cannot be said the
Member acted unreasonably in denying the request to adjourn the Landlord’s
application while agreeing to the request to adjourn the Tenants’ own
application. 
17.   With respect to relief from eviction, the order
clearly canvasses the evidence concerning the parties’ circumstances including
the number of children in the unit and the income available to the Tenant’s
family. The Landlord’s evidence was that the Landlord was facing bankruptcy. The
Tenants testified that they had sent a number of e-transfers to pay rent that
the Landlord refused. The Member determined that the Tenants’ evidence about
their alleged attempts to make payment to the Landlord were not credible. In
addition to not being credible the Tenants gave conflicting statements about
their ability to pay, at one point indicating they could pay and void the order.
So the Member determined it would be unfair in all of the circumstances to
grant any relief beyond the Board’s standard pay and stay order. 
18.   Given the evidence before the Member it cannot
be said her decision with respect to relief was unreasonable.
19.   As a result of all of the above, the Tenants’
request for review must be denied. I am not satisfied that there is a serious
error in the order or that a serious error occurred in the proceedings.
20.   This order contains all of the reasons for the
decision within it. No further reasons shall be issued.
It is ordered that:
 
1.     
The request to review order
TEL-91060-18 issued on June 29, 2018 is denied. The order is confirmed and
remains unchanged.
 
July 11, 2018                                                                    _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Ruth
Carey
                                                                                                                           Vice
Chair, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue,
Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any
questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
 

