Metadata:
Date:	2020-01-30
File number:	
TEL-03413-19
	TEL-03413-19
Citation:	TEL-03413-19 (Re), 2020 CanLII 61267 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/j9drw>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/j9drw
Content:


Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-03413-19
 











 

INC. (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to
terminate the tenancy and evict A. S. (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential
complex has wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The
Landlord has also applied for an order requiring the Tenant to compensate the
Landlord for the damage; and because the Tenant, another occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant. 
 
This application was heard in Belleville on August 23,
2019.
 
Only the Landlord’s agent, K. S.
attended the hearing.
 
Also in attendance was the Landlord’s
Witness, S. M. 
 
Determinations:
            PRELIMINARY
ISSUES
A.  
ADDRESS OF THE RENTAL UNIT
1.     
The address on the N5 notice
of termination lists the rental unit as “17-1 Woodview Lane Bancroft ON”. However,
the address on the L2 application and where the notice of hearing was mailed is
listed as “17 Woodview Lane Bancroft ON”. Both addresses, however, have the same
postal code. 
2.     
The Landlord’s agent testified
that both addresses would lead to the rental unit. Further, she spoke to the Tenant
on August 7, 2019 and offered to give her a ride to the hearing scheduled for August
22, 2019 but did not hear back from the Tenant.
3.     
Based on the uncontested evidence
before the Board, I am satisfied that the Tenant was served with the notice of hearing. I proceeded to
hear the matter uncontested.
LANDLORD’S L2 APPLICATION
4.     
Based on the uncontested
evidence before the Board, I am satisfied the Tenant, another occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the premises. I am also
satisfied that the Tenant has substantially interfered
with the other tenants' reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex and
substantially interferes with a lawful right, privilege or interest of the
Landlord. The tenancy is terminated for the
reasons that follow.
5.     
The Landlord’s L2 application
is based on first N5 notice of termination with a termination date of July 19, 2019,
served on the Tenant June 28, 2019. 
6.     
As it was a first N5 notice
of termination served pursuant to subsection 64(1) of the Act, the Tenant had a
seven-day remedy period, between June 28, 2019 and July 5, 2019 to fix void the
N5 by addressing the damages and cleaning up the rental unit. The Landlord’s evidence
was that on the follow up inspection that took place on July 6, 2019, there was
no improvement to the condition of the rental unit and the damages were not rectified
either; the Landlord did not receive payment of the damages nor were the damages
fixed. Therefore, I find that the Tenant did not void the first N5 notice of
termination. 
7.     
The N5 notice of termination
includes the following allegations: 
•        
On June 4, 2019 the Landlord
received notice that electrical services were disconnected to the rental unit due
to arrears accrued by the Tenant; and
•        
On June 26, 2019, the Landlord
conducted an inspect of the rental unit to find it in an unfit condition including
illegal substances, garbage throughout the unit, items blocking the windows and
exists, and damage to the drywall, walls and vent system of the rental unit. 
LANDLORD’S EVIDENCE
7.     
By way of background the rental
unit is a three-bedroom townhouse. The Tenant’s three children previously lived
in the unit with her. The Landlord testified that as of the hearing date, the children
have been removed from the rental unit by Children’s Aid Society. 
8.     
On June 4, 2019, the Landlord
received a letter from HydroOne advising that the electric service was disconnected
at the rental unit on May 29, 2019. This letter was served to the Landlord as they
were the Owner/Landlord of the rental unit. 
9.     
The Landlord’s uncontested evidence
was that the hydro bill was the responsibility of the Tenant and that as of the
date of the hearing, the Tenant still had not paid the arrears to have the electricity
reinstated at the rental unit. I find that this behaviour substantially interferes
with the Landlord’s lawful rights, interests and privileges as the Landlord has
now become liable for the utility arrears accrued by the Tenant. 
10.  
On June 26, 2019, the Landlord
conducted an inspection of the rental unit and submitted images of the following
condition of the rental unit. These pictures identify the following: 
•        
The refrigerator overloaded with
items and stained on the interior and the exterior;
•        
A close-up of a mug on a table
with over 30 small fruit flies sitting on the cup; 
•        
Piles of clothing and suitcases
covering the floors and staircase; bags of recycling or garbage hanging on a door
handle; 
•        
Furniture, milk cartons, clothing
articles scattered throughout a bedroom floor; markings on walls and boxes cluttering
the floors; 
•        
Dirty toilet bowl and seat with
garbage all over the floor including being the toilet; 
•        
Cigarette butts overflowing from
an ashtray and staining an oak table; 
•        
Spoons with leftover powdery
substance along with stains on the table; 
•        
Drug paraphernalia (tubes) scattered
all over the table/floor; 
•        
A drawing of the cartoon “Scooby-Doo”
on the wall smoking; 
•        
A bent-in, broken vent panel;

•        
Lots of garbage in the bedroom
with little space to walk; 
•        
The wall by the light switched
punched-in; other walls with similar markings of being punched in; 
•        
A crib with garbage on the inside
and outside; wiring sprawled throughout the hallway and rooms; and
•        
Clutter all over the countertop,
inside the kitchen cabinets; and on the kitchen floor. 
11.  
The Landlord’s uncontested evidence
was that they returned to the rental unit on July 6, 2019 and did not find any improvements
in the state of the rental unit; instead, the cleanliness and sanitation situation
had worsened. Further, there was a foul odour emanating from the rental unit and
a growing infestation of fruit flies. 
12.  
As a result, on July 10, 2019,
the Landlord contacted SERVPRO Ajax, a cleanup and restoration service provider,
which provided a quote in the amount of $8,060.41 for the removal of the hazardous
material, sharps disposal, removal of debris and waste and mold cleaning from the
rental unit. 
13.  
The Landlord seeks termination
of the tenancy, the application filing fee and the amount of $8,060.41 which is
the estimated cost of restoring the rental unit back to its original state. 


ANALYSIS
14.  
With respect to the issue of
the disconnection of electricity, I find that the Tenant has substantially interfered
with the lawful rights, interests and privileges of the Landlord by failing to pay
the hydro bills as require by the terms of her tenancy agreement. The Tenant’s failure
to pay the bills has resulted in accumulating arrears owing to HydroOne. This has
resulted in the Landlord being responsible for the arrears. 
15.  
With respect to the condition of
the rental unit, I am satisfied that the Tenant substantially interfered with a
lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord by failing to keep her unit
in an ordinary state of cleanliness which led to the infestation of fruit flies
and the foul odour emanating from her rental unit. 
16.  
In terms of the damage amount being
claimed in the application, the Landlord relies upon subsection 89(1) of the RTA
which states: 
89 (1)  A landlord may apply to the Board for an order requiring a tenant to
pay reasonable costs that the landlord has incurred or will incur for the
repair of or, where repairing is not reasonable, the replacement of damaged
property, if the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person whom
the tenant permits in the residential complex wilfully or negligently causes
undue damage to the rental unit or the residential complex and the tenant is in
possession of the rental unit.
17.  
In order for an application
to succeed under subsection 89(1) of the Act, a landlord must establish the
following: 
i.             
There was property damage to
the rental unit or residential complex;
ii.           
The damage is “undue”
meaning that it is not normal wear and tear and it is not insignificant; and
iii.          
The damage was a result of
wilful or negligent conduct.
18.  
In this context, I take the
word “property” to refer to the physical objects like the walls, ceilings,
floors, appliances and fixtures in a residential complex.
19.  
If all of these factors are
met, then the amount the Board can award is limited to the reasonable cost of
repair – the replacement cost cannot be awarded unless it is not reasonable for
the damage to be repaired. 
20.  
As evident from the Landlord’s
photographs, there is a significant amount of physical damage to the rental unit
due to the Tenant ’s negligent conduct – that of failing to maintain an ordinary
state of cleanliness in the rental unit. The damage caused by the Tenant is significant
enough to be considered “undue damage”.
21.  
While the amount claimed by the
Landlord in the application is $25,000.00, the only estimate/invoice entered into
evidence was for the amount of $8,060.41. Thus, the balance of the claim in the
amount of $16,939.59 must be dismissed. 
22.  
The estimate submitted represents
the reasonable out-of-pocket expense the Landlord will incur to clean the rental
unit and to restore it to its original state. Thus, I find the Tenant to be responsible
for the full amount of $8,060.41. 
RELIEF FROM EVICTION
23.  
The next issue before the Board
is with respect to relief from eviction. The Landlord’s evidence was that it has
attempted to assist the Tenant by offering to help clean up the rental unit, but
the Tenant has failed to follow through with these supports. 
24.  
Conditional relief is
appropriate where tenants acknowledge the behaviour and are willing to take
steps to change that behaviour, so the same problems do not re-occur in the
future. The evidence here does not support that conclusion with this Tenant. In
fact, there is no evidence suggesting the Tenant is willing or able to do what is
necessary to preserve his tenancy.  
25.  
I have considered all of the
disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would be unfair to grant
relief from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the Act. The Landlord is
unaware of any circumstances that would justify relief from eviction. 
26.  
This order contains all of
the reasons for my decision within it. No further reasons shall be issued.   
It is ordered that:
1.     
The tenancy between the
Landlord and the Tenant is terminated. The Tenant must move out of the rental
unit on or before February 11, 2020.
2.     
The Tenant shall pay to the
Landlord $8,060.41, which represents the reasonable costs of repairing the damage in the rental unit.

3.     
The Tenant shall also pay to
the Landlord $190.00 for the cost of filing the application.
4.     
The total amount owing under
this order is $8,250.41.
5.     
If the Tenant does not pay
the Landlord the full amount owing on or before February 11, 2020, the Tenant
will start to owe interest.  This will be simple interest calculated from
February 12, 2020 at 3.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
6.     
If the unit is not vacated
on or before February 11, 2020, then starting February 12, 2020, the Landlord
may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the
eviction may be enforced.
7.     
Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of
the unit to the Landlord on or after February 12, 2020.
 
                                                                                               
January 30, 2020                                                            _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Sonia
Anwar-Ali
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about this
order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of
the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires on August 12,
2020 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.
 
 

