Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-14
File number:	
TEL-18062-21

Citation:	Firmland (Cedar) v  Mcadam, 2022 CanLII 57977 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq2w5>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-18062-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


7 CEDAR STREET AJAX ON L1S1T9


 




Between:


Firmland (Cedar)


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Steven
Mcadam Tracey Mcadam


Tenants



 
 
 
Firmland (Cedar)
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Tracey
Mcadam and Steven Mcadam (the 'Tenants') because
they, another occupant
of the rental unit or someone they permitted in the
residential complex have substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment
or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or another tenant; and
because they, another occupant of the rental unit or a person the Tenants
permitted in the residential complex have seriously impaired the safety of any
person. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenants
remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application
was heard by videoconference on October 5, 2021. The Landlord’s legal
representative, Bryan Rubin, and the Tenants attended
the hearing. Martin
Appel (M.A.), the Landlord’s property manager, attended
the hearing as a witness for the Landlord.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
On June 30, 2021 the
Landlord served the Tenants with an N5 and an N7 notice of termination. The notices allege
that the Tenant
substantially interfered with the Landlord’s lawful rights, privileges or
interest, and that the Tenants seriously impaired the safety of another person
respectively.
 
2.    
Same facts gave rise to
both notices of termination. On or about June 3, 2021 the Landlord conducted a
unit inspection. The notices allege that the unit was found to be cluttered, unclean,
and unsafe due to electrical wires installed by the Tenants
throughout the unit. These electrical wires were hanging loosely
throughout the unit and were in locations that were unsafe for electrical wiring.
The rental unit is a townhouse in complex
of 36 townhouses owned by the Landlord. The unit shares walls with two other
units.
 
3.    
Based on the evidence
adduced at the hearing I find that the Tenants substantially interfered with
the Landlord’s lawful rights and privileges and seriously impaired the safety
of other residents
at the residential complex by improperly installing electrical wires




 
throughout the unit. I find that it is not unfair
to grant relief
from eviction in the form of a
conditional order requiring in light of all of the circumstances.
 
Substantial interference and impairment to safety
 
4.    
Most of the facts in this case were
undisputed.
 
5.    
M.A. testified
about the June 3, 2021 inspection and the Landlord
presented photographic
evidence in support of the testimony. The Tenants did not seriously challenge
this testimony and admitted that they installed all of the additional wires
other than the two orange wires in the basement. They also conceded that they
are not licensed to install wires. The Landlord did not seriously challenge
this statement and did not present any evidence that the two orange wires were
in fact installed by the Tenants. Based on the evidence adduced at the hearing
I find that on June 3, 2021 the rental unit was cluttered, unclean, and that
all haphazardly installed wires other than the two orange wires were installed
by the Tenants.
 
6.    
M.A. also testified
about the subsequent inspection that took place on July 7, 2021 and presented
photographic evidence about it. The Landlord argued that the unit was still
cluttered, unclean and unsafe. The Tenants conceded that the wiring was still
present throughout the unit but contested the other assertions. They testified
that they cleaned and de-cluttered the unit within the 7-day voiding period.
The Landlord’s own photographic evidence shows substantial improvement throughout the rental
unit by July 7, 2021. No pathways are blocked, no
stacks of boxes reach the ceiling.
 
7.     I know from previous cases that many fire departments now use the Clutter Image Rating Scale developed by
the International OCD Foundation. It
is a series of photographs showing varying degrees of clutter that help
quantify the severity of the cluttering problem.
There are different sets of photographs for a kitchen, bedroom and living room
and they are ranked on a numerical scale. They are available on-line at
https://www.hoardingconnectioncc.org/Hoarding_cir.pdf. Based on the photographs of the
rental unit provided I would say that after the Tenants cleaned up, the
Tenants’ unit was about a 3 on the scale with 9 being the rank associated with
the most amount of cluttering. Generally speaking a 3 or lower on the clutter
scale is considered to be acceptable; a 4 or higher indicates something needs
to be done.
 
8.    
I am satisfied that the
Tenants voided the clutter and cleanliness component of the N5 notice within
the 7-day voiding period after the N5 was served on June 30, 2021. The
photographs show a generally clean unit. While some clutter remains, hallways,
entry points and exit points a clear enough that anyone can access the rental
unit in the event of a fire or another
emergency. The Tenants
testified that the rental unit is older and does not provide much storage forcing
them to store some of their belongings throughout the unit.
 
9.     Based on the Landlord’s uncontradicted
evidence I find that the Tenants substantially interfered with the Landlord’s
lawful rights and privileges and seriously impaired the safety of other residents of the residential complex by improperly installing electrical wires throughout the unit without permits
or a license. The wires are not properly installed and




 
one blue wire is located in dangerous proximity to the stove and close enough to the
kitchen sink that it presents a serious risk of causing a fire.
 
Relief from eviction
 
10.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief
from eviction subject to the conditions set out in this order pursuant to
subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1) of the Act.
 
11.  At the hearing the Tenants expressed readiness to immediately remove all of the
wiring and extension cords other than the two orange wires that they did not install. They have
resided at the rental unit for 12 years and it would be difficult for them to
find an alternative place to live given the low monthly rent they are paying.
The Tenants are a one-income family as the female Tenant has health issues and
is unable to work. This evidence was not seriously undermined on
cross-examination.
 
12.  The Landlord requested that the tenancy be
terminated or in the alternative that a conditional order be issued
that would allow the Landlord
to terminate the tenancy if the
rental unit is cluttered or if wiring
is not removed or if dangerous wiring
is installed again in the future.
 
13.  Given my finding that the Tenants voided
the cleanliness and clutter components of the notice, I will not impose any
conditions relating to the cleanliness of the unit. I find that it is not unfair to allow the Tenants to continue the tenancy provided
that they remove
all of the wires they installed
and that they do not install any such wires for a period of 3 years.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s application to evict is denied unless the Tenants fail to meet the any of the requirements set out in paragraphs 2
and 3 below.
 
2.    
On or before
January 25, 2022, the Tenants
shall remove any wires that they installed
in the rental unit.
 
3.    
For a 3-year period
starting January 26, 2022 and ending January
25, 2025, the Tenants
shall not install any wires in the rental unit.
 
4.    
If the Tenants do not meet any
of the conditions contained in paragraphs 2 or 3 of this Order and by the date required, the
Landlord may apply without further notice to the Tenant for eviction pursuant
to section 78 of the Act. Such
application must be made within 30 days of the Tenants’ failure to comply.
 
5.    
The Tenants
shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing the application.
 
6.    
If the Tenants do not
pay the Landlord the full amount owing on or before January 25, 2022, they will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from January 26, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
balance outstanding.




 
 
 
 
January 14, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Vladimir
Nikitin
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland
Avenue, Unit 2 Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

