Metadata:
Date:	2018-04-17
File number:	
TEL-87330-18-RV
	TEL-87330-18-RV
Citation:	TEL-87330-18-RV (Re), 2018 CanLII 111756 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hw7wh>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hw7wh
Content:


Order under Section 21.2
of the 
Statutory Powers
Procedure Act 
and the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-87330-18-RV
 











 



 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 



 

Review Order
 
V.G. and J.G. (the 'Landlords') applied for an order
to terminate the tenancy and evict E.I. and M.M. (the 'Tenants') because the
Tenants did not pay the rent that the Tenants owe.
 
This application was resolved by order TEL-87330-18
issued on March 13, 2018.
 
On March 22, 2018 the Tenants
requested a review of the order and that the order be stayed until the request
to review the order is resolved.
 
On March 23, 2018 the interim
order TEL-87330-18-IN was issued, staying the order issued on March 13, 2018.
The request was heard in Toronto
on April 6, 2018.
 
The Landlords and their
representative, S.J.S., and the Tenant, E.I., on behalf of both Tenants
attended the hearing. The Landlord called one witness, S.K..
 
Determinations:
 
 
1.      The Tenants filed this review request because
they want to the Board to consider new evidence not available for the original
hearing, and because they believe that the Member failed to fully consider relief
from eviction in reaching her decision. The Tenants assert that the 6 month
repayment plan that they proposed at the original hearing was fair, in the
circumstances.
 
                        Serious
Error in the Order
 
2.     
On the basis of the submissions
made in the request, I am not satisfied that there
is a serious error in the
order or that a serious error
occurred in the proceedings. I say this for the following reasons.
3.     
The Tenant was asked to
identify the serious error in the order at the outset of the review hearing. She
initially testified that the error is not serious, and then continued on to
identify that the Member failed to consider that she lives with her 86 year old
mother, daughter and her young children in the rental unit, when coming to her
decision. She testified that she provided that evidence at the hearing. 
4.     
The Tenant as also believes
that the Member erred because she failed to give her an extension of time for
vacating. She added that she had hoped for an extra two months from the date of
the hearing on February 7, 2018. As she was not granted an extension the Tenant
concluded that the Member did not take into account her situation, and she
supported her belief by referring to the order as a standard order. 
5.     
In the request for review,
the Tenant makes specific reference to a 6 month repayment plan. She believes
that as the Member did not order in favour of the 6 month repayment plan that
she proposed, the Member failed to consider all of her circumstances. 
          Analysis
6.     
The order issued on March
13, 2018 addresses specific evidence specific provided at the hearing and
identifies where the Tenants fell short of meeting their evidentiary burden. In
short, the Tenants did not establish that they had in fact paid their rent as
alleged, and failed to convince the Member on their future ability to pay their
rent at the February hearing. It contains sufficient detail for the reader to
understand how the decision maker reached a decision.
7.     
In the order, Member W.
makes specific reference to the Tenants proposed 6 month payment plan and
determined that the Tenants did not provide convincing evidence on how this is
a viable option. The Member states in the order that she considered all of the
evidence provided by the Tenants when considering this option and making her
determination. 
8.     
On the face of the decision,
the Member weighed the evidence and did not find that the Tenants established
their proposal convincingly. While the Tenants may not agree with the Member’s decision,
this does not mean there is a serious error. The Member has the discretion to
hear the evidence and make a determination based on all of the evidence before
her, which she clearly indicated that she did. She does not have
to itemize every item of evidence put forward to confirm that it has been
considered. It is clear from the decision that the Tenant’s did not meet their
evidentiary burden. The review process is not
designed to give a landlord or tenant a second
chance so they can do a better job at presenting their evidence and arguments.
9.     
The Tenant stated that she
had hoped that the outcome of the February hearing would have resulted in two
extra months to get organized. As the hearing was in February 2018 and it is
now mid-April, she has achieved that through the review process. 
10.  
I do not find that the
Tenant has established, on a balance of probabilities, that there is a serious
error in the order.
Error in the proceedings
11.  
In the request to review the
Tenant stated that she wanted to present witnesses who would support the
Tenants’ claim that the Landlord has fraudulently evicted other tenants. However
no such witness attended the review hearing. Therefore the Tenant failed to
establish this ground for review.
Error of fact
12.  
A request to review based on an
alleged error of fact must include specific details of the alleged error and
explain how a different finding of fact would change the result. The Tenant
refers to the order and asserts that the Member erred in the consideration of
the letter from the Landlord that indicated
that the Tenants have paid their rent on time for the past five years. This was
entered as an exhibit at the February hearing. It was written by the Tenant
with the Landlord’s consent. 
13.  
At the review hearing, the
Landlord called S.K. to testify about the letter. He is a realtor who is known
to both the Landlord and the Tenant, and he was present with the Tenants when
the letter was discussed by the parties. He confirmed that the Landlord (who
cannot read or write in English) consented to the letter over the phone
sometime in October 2017, to assist the Tenants in securing a new rental
property. The Landlord’s evidence is that the letter was consented to as a
courtesy to assist the Tenants prior to the rent arrears that began in December
2017.
14.  
The Landlord’s witness
provided consistent and convincing evidence while being questioned and cross
examined by the Tenant. In contrast, I found the Tenant evidence to be
confusing. Whether the letter was crafted in October or February is secondary
to the reason for its creation. In considering all of the evidence provided
around this issue, I find that the letter was consented to by the Landlord for
the purpose of assisting the Tenant’s secure more affordable housing elsewhere,
and did not accurately reflect the situation of arrears at issue in the
application. 
15.  
As a result, the Tenant
production of the original letter at the review hearing does not affect
materially the issues in dispute and
it does not change the result. The
order indicates that the Member considered the letter and all the evidence
before her. In her order she states: ‘Given the evidence before the Board and
on a balance of probabilities, I am satisfied the Tenant’s owe the rent claimed
by the Landlord.’ 
16.  
Given all of the above, the
Tenants’ request for review must be denied. 
It
is ordered that:
 
1.     
The request to review order
TEL-87330-18 issued on March 13, 2018 is denied. The order is confirmed and
remains unchanged.
2.     
The interim order issued on
March 23, 2018 is cancelled. The stay of order TEL-87330-18 is lifted.
 
April 17, 2018                                                                   _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Elana
Rose
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

