Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-08
File number:	
TEL-13998-20-SA

Citation:	Galaxy Value Add On c/o Anderson Begg LSPC. v Haines, 2022 CanLII 97396 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsjl8>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 78(6)
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-13998-20-SA
 
 



In the matter
  of:


411,
  1001 TALWOOD DRIVE PETERBOROUGH ON K9J7T3


 




Between:


Galaxy Value
Add On c/o Anderson Begg
LSPC.


Landlord




 


 
and
 
Joanne Haines


 
 
Tenant



 
 
 
Galaxy Value Add On c/o Anderson
Begg LSPC. (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict Joanne Haines
(the 'Tenant') because
the Tenant failed to meet a condition
specified in the mediated settlement issued by the Board on September 22, 2020
with respect to application TEL-07351-19. The matter was resolved by Order
TEL-13998-20, issued on January 25, 2021.
 
On February
14, 2021 the Tenant filed
a motion to set aside
the order. This application
was heard by video conference on July 7, 2021.
The Landlord's Legal Representative Kevin Anderson, the Tenant, the Occupant Jennifer
Haines, and the Tenant's Legal Representative Carrie Aylwin attended the
hearing. Melinda Deighton appeared as a witness for the Landlord.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.       
On January 25, 2021, the Landlord
obtained an order, TEL-13998-20, terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenant because
the Tenant failed
to meet a condition specified in a mediated settlement issued by the Board
with respect to application
TEL-07351-19, which was issued on September 22, 2020.
 
2.       
The mediated settlement provided
that the Landlord could apply to the Board under section 78 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') without notice to the Tenant
to terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenant if the Tenant or an occupant of
the rental unit did not meet certain condition(s) specified in the settlement.
 
3.       
The terms of the mediated settlement agreement determined to have been breached
were as follows, at paras. 2 and 3 :




 
2.  
The Tenant agrees that the Tenant
or occupant shall make a scheduled
appointment when the Tenant or occupant wishes to visit the rental office.
3.  
The Tenant agrees that the Tenant
or occupant shall not visit the rental office without an appointment
except in the case of an emergency.
 
4.       
The Landlord’s position is that J.H., the authorized occupant of the rental unit, attended
the rental office on December 1, 2020 without a scheduled appointment as
required under paragraph 2 of the agreement, and that when she attended that
day it was not because of an emergency situation, as set out in paragraph 3 of
the agreement.
 
5.       
The Tenant asks the Board to set aside the order because
she did not breach either
of the two conditions of the mediated agreement.
 
The Basis for the Alleged Breach-
The Landlord’s Evidence
 
6.       
The Landlord’s witness M.D.
testified that on December 1, 2020 she was the regional administrator for the Landlord.
She is currently the property
manager. She states
that she was not personally
involved in the incidents in dispute.
 
7.       
M.D. testified that on December 1,
2020 she became aware that the occupant J.H. had attended at the rental office
without an appointment on four separate
occasions over the period of one day. She first received
an email from J.D., the Resident Property Manager. The
email contained an email thread of internal communications between staff.
 
8.       
She stated that on the same day
she was also verbally informed by S.C., the Site Administrator, about the
incidents. M.D. said that during the conversation S.C. described the experience, and the communications, she had with J.H. when J.H. attended
the rental office.
 
9.       
The Landlord's Legal Representative drew M.D.’s attention to the correspondence. The relevant emails, in chronological order, are as follows:
 
•      
November 30, 2020: from S.C. to J.D. (Residential Property Manager):
She has also been in
my office unannounced at least 3 times today. And once she called from outside the door to ask to
be let in, I guess that counts. [emphasis added]
 
•      
November 30, 2020: from J.D. to S.C.:
Can you please advise
on the times and the nature of the interactions?
 
•      
December 1, 2020: from S.C. to J.D.:
She came in around 945am
demanding to know if there was camera footage of the incident. She came again around 11am for the same reason.
At 1230pm called while looking at me through the
office door to ask if she could come in. Around 2pm she came in again to
complain that I was refusing to give her my contact information.




 
 
•      
December 1, 2020: from S.C. to Anderson/Begg:
Additional info about 411 – 1001 Talwood as I know unscheduled non-emergency trips to the office were a part
of the mediated agreement. She
went into the office on three
occasions yesterday and was very aggressive towards staff. [emphasis added]
 
10.    M.D. confirmed receiving
and reading the emails. She indicated that she was basing her testimony about her conversation with
S.C. on her recollection of events in 2020.
 
11.    The Landlord did not present
S.C. or any other witnesses
who could testify
about his/her/their direct knowledge of the incidents in question.
 
The Breach is Disputed-
The Tenant’s Evidence
 
12.   
J.H. testified that she did attend
at the rental office because of an emergency relating to incidents involving another tenant, which occurred on November 29, 2020 and November
30, 2020.
 
13.    She stated that on November
29, 2020 she met a female tenant
in the building’s elevator.
She testified that the other tenant pushed her twice, causing her to fall. As
the other tenant left, J.H. arose and followed her. The other tenant stopped,
turned around and kicked J.H. hard in the leg, causing J.H. to fall again.
 
14.   
After these assaults, J.H. called the police. The police attended
to investigate. No criminal
charges were laid. J.H. attempted to report the incident to Northview
Management on the phone number previously provided to her but a recording
advised her that the number was no longer in service. J.H. testified that her knee had been injured and she attended
the hospital with some immediacy for assessment and treatment.
 
15.   
The next day, J.H. said, she was returning
to her unit in the morning after walking her dog
and she met the same tenant, who appeared to be moving out. The tenant asked
J.H. if she wanted to “get into it again” or “are you ready to get f***ed up
again?”.
 
16.    The aggressive behaviour of the other person
intimidated her and she felt her personal safety was at imminent risk of serious
harm. J.H. said she was in shock
and decided that the situation was sufficiently
urgent that she should inform the Landlord’s staff in person without delay.
 
17.   
J.H. acknowledges that she attended at the rental
office at approximately 9:45 a.m. to report
the incidents. However, she
testified, she attended the office
on November 30, 2020, not on
December 1, 2020.
 
18.    The staff person present, S.C., she said, was
unwelcoming, aggressive and “scoffed it off”.
When she tried to attend the office later several times
that day, she said she was met with a similar
response by staff.




 
Analysis
 
19.   
Subsection 78(11)(a) of the Act provides
that the Board shall make an order granting the set aside motion if any of the
criteria set out in subsection 78(1) are not satisfied.
 
20.    For the reasons
below, I am satisfied that the motion must be granted and that the order
must be set aside.
 
Date of the Alleged
Breach
 
21.    In the application, the Landlord alleges that the
incidents set out in the grounds for the application occurred on December 1,
2020. However, the Landlord’s documentary evidence establishes that the Tenant attended
at the rental office on November 30, 2020.
This fact was confirmed by the Tenant’s
testimony, which I found to be consistent, honest and credible. The Landlord’s witness M.D., on the other hand, did not at any time identify the date the
breach was alleged to have occurred.
 
22.    The difficulty with the allegation about December 1,
2020, is that the evidence supports the conclusion that the events
did not actually
occur on the date the Landlord alleges
the incidents happened.
 
23.    Based on the evidence before
me, I find that J.H. attended at the rental office on November 30, 2020.
 
Hearsay Evidence
 
24.   
There is additional concern
regarding the Landlord’s witness testimony, which
was almost wholly hearsay and
included double, and even triple, hearsay.
 
25.    While hearsay evidence is admissible in proceedings
before the Board, it must be weighed carefully. Hearsay
evidence is given less weight
than in-person testimony which can be tested
by cross-examination. I am unable
to give M.D.’s
evidence any weight
as it is not sufficiently
reliable to overcome the dangers arising from the inability to test it.
 
Did the Occupant
Breach a Condition Set Out in the Mediated
Settlement?
 
26.   
In her evidence, J.H. asserted that: (i) she attended the rental office
because it was an
emergency, which is permitted
under the mediated settlement and (ii) the Landlord got the date of the alleged breach wrong.
 
27.    The burden of proof as to any particular fact set out
in the application lies with the Landlord. I find that the Landlord has failed to establish that the occupant
J.H. attended at the rental
office on December
1, 2020 as claimed in the Landlord’s application. Therefore,
J.H. could not have breached the condition of the mediated
settlement on that particular
day.
 
28.    I find that the Landlord
has not established that J.H. failed to comply with one or more of the conditions imposed upon the Tenant
by way of the mediated settlement
agreement.




 
29.   
I note that, had the Tenant or
occupant breached a term of the mediated settlement, having regard
to all the circumstances, I would have considered granting
the motion to set aside the order pursuant to
78(11)(b) of the Act, on the basis that it would not be unfair to do so. An
order would issue amending the settlement agreement because it would be
appropriate to revise the terms of the agreement.
 
30.    The concern that arises from paragraph 3 of the
mediated settlement is that the parties did not define
the kinds of situations that would constitute an emergency. The absence of a definition means that the
interpretation of the word “emergency” is subjective, as opposed to objective.
 
31.    What J.G. may perceive
as an emergency may not be
interpreted as an emergency by the
Landlord’s staff. The vagueness of the wording
leads to ambiguity. The Tenant and occupant are entitled to know what the
particular limits are to being able to attend the rental office, in plainly
defined terms.
 
32.    To be clear, the motion
is granted on the
basis that the criteria
set out in subsection 78(1) are not satisfied.
 
33.   
This order contains all of the reasons for my decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     
Order TEL-13998-20, issued on January 25, 2021, is set side and cannot
be enforced.
 
 




February 8, 2022


                                         




Date Issued                                                                      Elle Venhola
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland
Avenue, Unit 2 Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

