Metadata:
Date:	2020-06-25
File number:	
TEL-11185-20-IN-AM
	TEL-11185-20-IN-AM
Citation:	TEL-11185-20-IN-AM (Re), 2020 CanLII 61362 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/j9dw0>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/j9dw0
Content:


Amended Order under
Section 16.1 of the 
Statutory Powers
Procedure Act 
and the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-11185-20-IN-AM
 











 
 
 

AMENDED INTERIM ORDER
 
This order is amended to correct a clerical error; properly
identify the address of the rental unit. The Landlord requested the order to be
amended to remove “south” as Brimley Road does not have a “north” or “south”.  Given
the N7 application and mailing address for the Tenant did not include “south”
and the Tenant was properly served with the Notice of Hearing, I find there is
no prejudice to the Tenant in amending the interim order.
 
 
N.S. and CORPORATION (the 'Landlords') applied for an
order to terminate the tenancy and evict K.F. (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant
did not pay the rent that the Tenant owes (L1).
 
The Landlords also applied for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict the Tenant because the Tenant, another occupant of the
rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest of the Landlords in a residential complex that has three
or fewer residential units (L2/N5) and because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or a person the Tenant permitted in the residential
complex has seriously impaired the safety of any person (L2/N7). 
 
On June 03, 2020, the Landlord filed an ex parte
motion with the Board asking that an urgent hearing be held for this
application. The motion was granted by the Board on June 16, 2020 based on
allegations that the Tenant has been smoking
marijuana in the rental unit which is creating second hand smoke that is
causing the Landlord and/or the Landlord’s spouse to have serious ongoing
health impacts due to their pre-existing conditions of asthma and high blood
pressure. An interim order was issued directing this matter to a hearing
as the behaviour may constitute an ongoing and
serious risk to health and safety.  
 
This application was heard via teleconference on June
23, 2020.
 
Only the Landlord, N.S. attended
the hearing. The Tenant was not present or represented at the hearing although properly
served with the notice of this hearing by the Board. 
 
M.N. (Tenant Duty Counsel) attended the hearing but
did not participate as she had not been retained by the Tenant.
 
K.K.B. (KKB) attended the hearing
as a witness for the Landlord.
 
Determinations L2/N7:
 
1.    The rental unit consists of a bedroom located in a basement of a house where
the Tenant shares a kitchen and washroom with 2 other tenants. The monthly rent
is $650.00. The tenancy commenced October 2019. The Landlord and his spouse
live on the main floor of the house; directly above the basement.
 
2.    The Landlord’s application was preceded by a N7 notice of termination
deemed served on May 25, 2020 in accordance with the requirements of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the “Act”).
 
3.    This application is based on a N7 notice of
termination served on the Tenant pursuant to section 66 of the Act.
 
4.    Section 66 of the Act permits a landlord to give a
tenant a notice of termination if,
 
a)   
an act or omission of the
tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person permitted in the
residential complex by the tenant seriously impairs the safety of another
person, or has seriously impaired the safety of another person; and
b)   
the act or omission complained
of occurs in the residential complex.
 
 
5.   
The Landlord testified to the following:
 
•        
The rental agreement
specified the unit was non-smoking and the Tenant was fully aware of the
stipulation. 
•        
The Tenant began smoking
marijuana in his bedroom on May 12, 2020. 
•        
The Landlord asked the
Tenant several times to stop smoking in the rental unit and even erected a
no-smoking sign in the unit. The Tenant was not receptive (swore at the
Landlord) and told the Landlord to call the police. 
•        
The complex contains a
forced air heating system so any smoke from the basement travels through the
vents and enters the Landlord’s unit above.
•        
The Landlord’s spouse
suffers from high blood pressure and the Tenant smoking marijuana causes her blood
pressure to rise.
•        
The Landlord is asthmatic
and diabetic. When he smells the marijuana it causes him to have significant
difficulties breathing including an asthma attack. 
•        
When the Tenant has been
smoking marijuana the Landlord and his spouse have had to open all of their
windows and leave their unit until the smell is gone.
•        
The Tenant was smoking
marijuana in his bedroom on May 19, 2020 which caused the Landlord’s wife’s
blood pressure to spike.
•        
On May 21, 2020 at
approximately 5:00 a.m. the Landlord and his spouse were awoken by the smell of
smoke. The Tenant was smoking marijuana in his bedroom which caused the
Landlord’s spouse’s blood pressure to spike and the Landlord had an asthma
attack. The Landlord was going to call an ambulance but he used his prescribed
puffer and went outside and was able to breath properly again.
•        
The Landlord and his wife
were examined by their physician, Dr. H.S. on May 25, 2020. He wrote letters
for the Landlord and his spouse supporting their claims that the Landlord’s
spouse is “…suffering nasal discomfort and elevated blood pressure…” and the
Landlord’s “…asthma is exacerbated due to tenant smoking marijuana at home.”
•        
The Tenant has continued to
smoke marijuana in his bedroom almost daily since the N7 was served and the
Landlord is very concerned for his health and the health of his wife. They have
placed towels in all the air vents and under their door in an attempt to keep
the smoke from entering their unit but their efforts have not been effective.
•        
The Landlord has suffered
sleepless nights due to the Tenant smoking marijuana in his room and is
concerned it will cause him to have an accident at work. He is in the fire
restoration industry and sites are often dangerous. He must be well rested in
order to perform his job properly and safely. 
•        
Nobody has witnessed the
Tenant smoking marijuana in the rental unit because he locks himself in his
room but said the smell of marijuana originates from the Tenant’s room. 
•        
The other two tenants residing
in the basement with the Tenant do not smoke and have complained to the
Landlord about the smell caused by the Tenant.
•        
The Tenant has not smoked
marijuana in his bedroom since June 03, 2020 at 1:45 p.m. as he has rarely been
at the rental unit; stops in for a few minutes then leaves. He has not given
the Landlord any indication he intends to vacate the unit and in fact has told
the Landlord the only way he is leaving is if the Board orders him out. 
•        
The Landlord tendered photos
of prescribed medications, blood pressure monitoring machine, covered air vents
a no smoking sign and texts sent to the Tenant in support of his testimony.
 
6.    KKB testified that he resides in one of the
other bedrooms in the basement of the complex. He has never observed the Tenant
smoking marijuana but no other tenant smokes and the marijuana smell definitely
comes from the Tenant’s bedroom. He described the smell as tremendously strong
and it fills the entire basement. He believes the smell causes his blood
pressure to rise.
 
7.   
Based on the uncontested
evidence before me, I find on a balance of probabilities the Tenant has seriously impaired the safety of the
Landlord and his spouse by smoking marijuana in the rental unit on a regular
basis. I find the Landlord has proven on a balance of probabilities the Tenant
does smoke marijuana in the rental unit; the testimony of the Landlord and KKB
are consistent in that the Tenant locks himself in his room and the smell of
marijuana originates from this location. Further, they both testified nobody
else smokes in the rental unit. I also find the Landlord has proven on a
balance of probabilities, he and his spouse have pre-existing medical
conditions that are being significantly impacted by the Tenant smoking
marijuana in the rental unit; resulting in spiked blood pressure, breathing
difficulties and an asthma attack. The Landlord’s evidence is supported by 2
letters written by the Landlord’s physician after examinations of the Landlord
and his spouse.
 
8.   
I have considered all of the
disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would be unfair to grant
relief from eviction pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the Act.
 
IS THIS MATTER URGENT?
 
 
9.   
In light of the COVID-19 situation, on March 19,
2020 the Board suspended until further notice the
issuance of all eviction orders, unless the matter relates to an urgent issue
such as a serious and ongoing health or safety issue at
the residential complex or a serious illegal act that occurred at the
residential complex. 
 
10. In addition, on March 19, 2020, the Chief Justice of the Ontario
Superior Court of Justice issued an order suspending the enforcement of Board eviction orders by the Sheriff unless the court orders otherwise upon
leave being granted to a party by the court pursuant to the court’s procedures
for urgent motions.
 
11. The burden is on the landlord, as moving party, to establish that this
is an urgent situation which requires eviction of the tenant in the middle of
the pandemic. In this case, the Tenant has continued to smoke marijuana in the rental
unit despite repeated requests by the Landlord to stop.  Based on the
uncontested evidence before me, the act of smoking marijuana in the rental unit
is seriously impairing the health and safety of the Landlord and his spouse. While
the Tenant hasn’t smoked marijuana in the unit since June 03, 2020 the Landlord
testified it was due to the Tenant not staying at the unit for long periods. However,
at any point the Tenant could return for longer periods and again engage in the
same behaviour. He has indicated to the Landlord he will not stop smoking marijuana
in the rental unit and will not vacate the unit unless ordered to by the Board.
Consequently, I find the health risk posed by the Tenant’s conduct is both
serious and ongoing.  


12. The
Landlord has satisfied the test for an urgent eviction presently being applied
due the Covid-19 pandemic. I find the Landlord has demonstrated the Tenant
poses an immediate, serious health or safety concern for himself and his
spouse. Therefore, I find that the tenancy should be terminated despite the
current Covid-19 pandemic.
 
Other claims made by the Landlord.
 
13. The Landlord’s L1 application about rent arrears was not
heard due to lack of time. The application will be scheduled by the Board to be
heard at a later date as non-urgent hearing. 
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     
The Board shall schedule the
L1 application to be heard as a non-urgent hearing.
 
2.     
The tenancy between the
Landlord and the Tenant is terminated, as of July 02, 2020. The Tenant must
move out of the rental unit on or before July 02, 2020.
 
3.     
The Tenant shall pay to the
Landlords $190.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
4.     
If the Tenant does not pay
the Landlords the full amount owing on or before July 02, 2020, the Tenant will
start to owe interest.  This will be simple interest calculated from July 3, 2020
at 3.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
5.     
The Tenant shall also pay to
the Landlord $21.37 per day for compensation for the use of the unit from July
03, 2020 to the date the Tenant moves out of the unit.
 
6.     
If the unit is not vacated on or before July 02,
2020, then starting July 03, 2020, the Landlord may file this order with the
Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may be enforced. As of
the date this order is issued, the Landlord must bring a
motion for directions under Rule 60.17 of the Rules of Civil
Procedure, made to a justice of the Superior Court of Justice, prior to filing this order with the Sheriff.
 
7.     
Upon receipt of this order and any required direction of the Superior Court, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is
directed to give vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after July
03, 2020. The Sheriff is requested to expedite the enforcement of this order.
 

June 25, 2020                                                                  _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Troy
Rossignol
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
July 09, 2020
Date Amended
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In
accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order relating to the
eviction expires on January 03, 2021 if the order has not been filed on or
before this date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has
territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is located. However, this
deadline may be extended as a result of an Emergency Management and Civic Protection Act
(EMCPA) order issued by the Government of Ontario on Friday, March 20,
2020. The EMPCA Order suspends limitation periods and procedural time periods
contained in all tribunal and court orders retroactive to Monday, March 16,
2020.
 

