Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-02
File number:	
TEL-17226-21-SA

Citation:	Thomas v Pilliner, 2022 CanLII 87366 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2s8>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 78(11)
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-17226-21-SA
 
 



In the matter
of:


BASEMENT, 719 MORRISH
ROAD SCARBOROUGH ON M1C1G1


 




Between:


Korah Thomas


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Dearon Pilliner


Tenant



 
 
 
Korah Thomas
(the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Dearon Pilliner (the 'Tenant') because the
Tenant failed to meet a condition specified in the mediated settlement issued by
the Board on March 31, 2021 with respect to application TEL-11356-20.
 
The Landlord's application was resolved
by order TEL-17226-21, issued on June 4, 2021. The
Tenant filed a motion to set aside order TEL-17226-21.
 
This motion was heard by video conference on September 21, 2021, and January 20, 2022.
 
The Landlord, the Landlord’s legal representative, C. Aylwin,
the Tenant, and the Tenant’s
legal representative, K. Laforest, attended the hearings.
 
The Tenant’s witnesses, V. Mackintosh and K. Wilson attended the hearing. The Landlord’s
witness A. Pathan attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     The parties dispute
whether the Tenant
breached a mediated
agreement concluded on March 31, 2021, by running a catering
business from the rental unit.
 
2.     The rental unit is a basement apartment
in a house. There is an upstairs
tenant, and the Landlord does not live on site.
 
3.     The Landlord filed an L2 application based on N6 and
N7 notices of termination. The
parties concluded a mediated agreement, issued on March 31, 2021,
after a hearing
held on March 30, 2021. The
Tenant was represented by K. LaForest.
 
4.     Paragraph 1 of the mediated
agreement stated that “Commencing March 30, 2021, the
Tenant is to stop running a food service business (i.e. catering, eat in and/or
takeout)
from the rental unit.”




 
 
 
5.    
In the event of a breach of the mediated agreement, the Landlord was permitted
to apply under section 78 of
the Residential Tenancies Act, without notice to the Tenant, for an
order terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenant.
 
6.     The Landlord filed an L4 application in May, 2021, for
eviction of the Tenant based on a breach of the mediated agreement concluded on
March 31, 2021. The alleged breach
was “On or about May 20, 2021, the Landlord
became aware that the Tenant was taking orders for his catering business
and providing the rental unit as the pick up address for
the orders.”
 
7.     The ex parte order obtained
by the Landlord on June 4, 2021,
found that the Tenant did not meet the condition of paragraph 1
of the mediated agreement, i.e. that “the Tenant did not cease running a food
service business from the rental unit.”
 
8.    
The Tenant filed a set aside motion, alleging
that he did not breach
the mediated agreement.
 
Evidence:
 
 
9.    
The Tenant denies that he runs a catering
business in his rental unit since concluding the mediated agreement in March, 2021.
 
10.  The Tenant provided
a lot of testimony about
his community work, and the catering he provides at community events. Most of it was irrelevant to whether or
not he had breached the mediated agreement. Merely
because the Tenant uses community kitchens for community events does not speak
to whether the Tenant uses his own kitchen for other catering events.
 
11.  The Tenant brought two other witnesses, besides
himself. In his own testimony, he did
not deny that he has continued his catering activities after March, 2021, but
he said that he does not cook for
his catering business in the rental
unit. Among other places he said
that he cooks, he said that he uses “facilities”, his neighbour’s house, and
anonymous “community centres” while carrying out his catering
business. The Tenant
did not provide a lease nor any documentary
evidence to prove which facilities or community centres in which he carries out
his cooking.
 
12.  The Landlord created a fictional email address in the
name of Wendy Davies (WD) in order to carry out a conversation with the
Tenant at his chef email address. The Landlord
entered into evidence email exchanges that occurred in May, 2021, between WD
and a person at the Tenant’s email address, “chefdearon”. In the exchanges, chefdearon provides WD
with a takeout menu, as well as a pick up address for the order at the rental unit.
 
13.  The Tenant said that it was his girlfriend, V.
Mackintosh (VM), who had the email exchange with WD. VM does not live with the Tenant, but both of them testified that they




 
share phones when VM is at the
Tenant’s home. Both the Tenant and VM
said that VM has a customer service background, and she carries out marketing
for the Tenant. Both the Tenant and
VM said that the Tenant was not aware of the email exchange with WD, and in any
event, WD never picked up the food. VM
said that she only answered WD because WD was persistent, and VM
could see that the Tenant was not answering. Both the Tenant and VM said that the Tenant had not fully
informed VM about the mediated agreement until after
the email exchange
with WD in May, 2021. The Tenant
said that he had no idea why VM thought he would be
able to complete the takeout order for WD that day.
 
14.  The Landlord
said that he created WD after
he heard in April,
2021, from neighbours, and the upstairs tenant that the Tenant continued to run his
business from the rental unit. He said that he understood that much of
the activity went on during Fridays and the weekend. It was for this reason that the Landlord decided to carry out
surveillance of the rental unit on Friday May 21, 2021. The Landlord said that he observed about 10-15 people coming and
going from the rental unit that day, and noticed that they entered empty handed,
remained in the unit for 5 to 10 minutes, and they came out with shopping bags of food. He had a few photos
of one person entering empty handed and coming out with a shopping bag.
 
15.  The Tenant said that he holds family
Friday events with board games
and food to “spread love”, create community, and
provide an example to his children. He
said that he never charges money for these events. The Tenant’s witness, a neighbour, K. Wilson (KW), testified
that he is a friend of the Tenant. KW
said he frequently attends the Friday night events, and he has never been charged for
food. KW did not mention
anything about the Tenant cooking at his house.
 
16.  The Landlord also hired a private investigation
company, and they created a fictional person, Samantha, who placed a take out order
at the end of May, 2021. The Landlord
submitted into evidence a text exchange between Samantha and the Tenant. The Landlord brought the investigator, A.
Pathan (AP), as a witness. AP
testified about creating Samantha, and about her having a text exchange with
the Tenant about a possible wedding order.
The Landlord also submitted into evidence a voice recording of a conversation between AP as Samantha, and the Tenant. In the voice recording the Tenant is
ultimately amenable to fulfilling the wedding order, and he demonstrates
awareness of health and by law regulations and standards.
 
17.  AP testified that one
of her private investigators went to pick up a take out order at the
rental unit address. She said that
her investigator observed a “mini illegal catering kitchen in the house.”
 
18.  The Tenant said that he did not complete a catering take out order for Samantha.
He said that he agreed to provide a sample menu because Samantha told
him she was interested in hiring the Tenant to cater a wedding in June, 2021.
 
19.  The Landlord submitted into evidence multiple
Instagram ads posted by the Tenant in May, 2021, in which there are large
vessels of food depicted for mass catering, and potential customers are told to place their pre-orders. The ads also show cooking
being




 
carried out in a kitchen that looks identical
to that of the Tenant.
The Tenant said that the day of posting an Instagram ad is not necessarily
the day the ad is created. He also
said that he posts ads in which there are huge vessels of food that are
actually created for family events for which he does not charge, and which are
also not for his business.
 
20.  The Tenant said that, in the rental unit, he is a full time father to his two children of 11 and
13. He said that he has sole custody of these children. He also said that if he were evicted he would be homeless, because he has no alternative place to live. VM said that
she is unable to house the Tenant because she lives with her mother, and there
is insufficient space.
 
21.  The Landlord said that he had tried to stop the Tenant
from carrying out his catering business in the rental unit for a long time. He said that he signed the mediated
agreement in March, 2021, in good faith,
after many discussions in which he had tried
to come to a peaceful arrangement with the Tenant. The Landlord said that he was dismayed
after he saw all the videos and posts from April through December 2021 that
showed the Tenant was running his business from the rental unit.
 
22.  The Landlord testified about the impact of the
catering business on him. He said
that he has replaced the stove three times over the last five years, he has
replaced the fridge twice, and he is constantly replacing stove elements that are
expensive. He said that he has also
replaced kitchen cabinet hinges, the kitchen countertop, and the walls are
stained from the mass cooking. He
also said that the utilities are extremely high, and higher than any of his
other properties, and he is concerned about the high traffic to and from the rental unit. The Landlord
said that he has received
complaints from neighbours, and there are a number of
safety concerns about the commercial catering going on in a basement rental
unit. He said that such a business is
against all City Bylaw and commercial kitchen standards.
 
23.  The Landlord said that City By law is aware of his concerns about the business,
and he is in communication
with them about it. He said that
there has been no violation order issued from City By law about the catering
business.
 
Submissions:
 
 
24.  The Tenant submits that the Landlord’s allegations of
breach are not supported by documentary evidence. Further,
the Tenant submits
that the Landlord
has failed to prove
that the Tenant was carrying on illegal activity as alleged in the N6 notice of
termination, or that the Tenant’s activities caused a serious impairment to
safety as alleged in the N7 notice of termination.
 
25.  The Tenant’s submission is that the Board’s settlement
powers under subsection 194(2) of the Act broaden the type of conditions that may be imposed on a Tenant in
a mediated agreement, and
therefore not every breach of a mediated agreement can lead to an eviction. The Tenant submits that the Landlord is
only eligible to obtain an ex parte eviction order under section 78 of the Act,
if the alleged breach is of a condition that “if




 
not met by the tenant, would give rise to the same grounds
for terminating the tenancy as were claimed in the previous
application,” as stated in subsection 78(1)2i.
The Tenant submits that the alleged breach did not meet the test of
subsection 78(1)2i, since the Landlord did not provide evidence of any criminal
act or serious impairment of safety posed by the Tenant. Nor, he submits, did the Landlord provide any evidence that the
activities of the Tenant affect the character of the neighbourhood.
 
26.  The Tenant submits that the city is relaxing the
regulations with regard to at-home food businesses. Finally, the Tenant submits that he is a single father with two
dependent children in the rental unit, and he has nowhere
else to live. Eviction would also create a
great strain on his ability to visit
with the child he shares with VM. The Tenant requests that the Board grant the motion to set aside
because no breach has been proved.
 
27.  The Landlord submits
that the parties
concluded a mediated
agreement with a section 78 clause in order to provide the Tenant
an opportunity to remedy the behaviour that had created a conflict in the
parties’ relationship. The Landlord
submits that he has provided substantial testimonial and documentary evidence
of the breach of the agreement, that
the Tenant has been disingenuous in his denials of a
breach, and that the Tenant has no
intention of abiding by the mediated agreement concluded in March, 2021.
 
Reasons and Analysis:
 
 
28.  The Tenant alleges
that there was no breach of the mediated agreement, but further, he also argues that there could be no
breach unless the Landlord could prove that the
Tenant’s activities were illegal
or they constituted a serious impairment to safety. In essence, the Tenant
argues that the paragraph in the agreement that prohibits carrying out a catering business from the
rental unit, is null and void unless the Landlord could also prove that the
business is illegal and a serious impairment to safety.
 
29.  The evidence brought by the Landlord related to
whether there was a breach of the mediated agreement. However, in his submissions, the Tenant’s legal representative
argued that the condition of the agreement that was allegedly breached was a
condition arrived at in the mediated
agreement pursuant to subsection 194(2) of the Act, i.e. that a settlement under that provision may
“contain provisions that contravene any provision under this Act.”
 
30.  I do not accept the Tenant’s argument that prohibiting
a catering business in the rental unit is a condition that goes beyond the
scope of an N6 or an N7 notice of termination. Nor do I accept that it is the Landlord’s responsibility, at a set aside hearing,
to prove both a breach of the condition in the
agreement, and to prove that the condition allegedly breached directly arose
from the notices of termination served on the Tenant.
 
31.  The Tenant agreed
to the condition to prohibit running a catering business
from the rental unit upon counsel from the same
legal representative that he brought to the set aside hearing. The Tenant’s legal representative could
have counselled his client to proceed with a hearing in March, 2021, to argue
that the Tenant’s business in the rental unit was




 
not illegal nor a serious
impairment to safety if he had chosen to proceed to litigation, but he did not. If the Tenant
had seriously believed that his business was neither illegal
nor a serious impairment to
safety, no competent legal representative would have counselled him to sign the
mediated agreement. At that point it
is the Landlord’s obligation to prove the allegations in his application. The Tenant, instead,
upon the advice of counsel,
chose to enter into a mediated
agreement with the Landlord after many months of disagreement and disharmony, in order to
peacefully settle a contentious matter between the parties.
 
32.  While it is true that the Landlord did not introduce
documentary evidence of how mass catering is illegal, nor a serious impairment
to safety, the Tenant himself demonstrated clear knowledge of regulations
regarding commercial food preparation, and he communicated these to the
Landlord’s witness. The Landlord had
no reason to believe that he would be required to prove his original
application in a set aside hearing where the only relevant evidence for the
Landlord to introduce relates to whether or not there has been a breach. No reasonable Landlord would think that a
Tenant who knowingly, and on the advice of counsel,
signed a mediated agreement, would attempt to argue that a condition mutually agreed to in the
same agreement is in contravention of the Act. They certainly would not believe
that they had to come to a hearing armed to prove how the mutually arrived at
condition was, in fact, properly grounded by the notice of termination.
 
33.  The Tenant pointed out that the Landlord did not
provide any documentary evidence of City by law or health violations. However,
there is no reason for a Landlord
to bring such evidence to a set aside hearing,
and it is prejudicial to the Landlord
to seek out evidence of such
violations. It is the Landlord who is
ultimately responsible for any fines or remediation. It is exactly such violations that he sought to avoid by
concluding a mediated agreement.
 
34.  Cursory research reveals that the Ontario government
did increase its support for home- based food businesses during the pandemic,
but these businesses still had obligatory public health requirements. The Ontario government only encouraged
“low-risk” home prepared foods. The
food prepared by the Tenant does not fall into the low-risk category of
pickles, jams, candy and preserves. The Tenant prepares all manner of hot meals
that the Tenant is well aware would require adherence to food premises
regulation and health protection, as he alluded to in one of the conversations recorded
by the Landlord’s private investigator.
 
35.  The Landlord provided
evidence, and it was undisputed, that he had replaced the stove,
fridge, stove elements, countertop and kitchen cupboards multiple times. He provided testimony about the damaged
state of the walls resulting from continual mass cooking.
 
36.  Therefore, the Landlord surely could have provided
evidence of the Tenant’s business being both illegal and a serious impairment
to safety if he had believed that it was required. But there was no reason for him to believe he had to introduce
such evidence for this type of motion.
For this motion,
the Tenant contested
there was a breach, and the
Landlord had ample evidence
of a breach. In fact,
there was overwhelming evidence
that the Tenant never ceased running his catering business from the
rental unit, except for a very brief period in March or early April, 2021.




 
 
 
37.  The Tenant’s evidence
that he had no knowledge of the correspondence with WD in May, 2021, because he shares phones with
VM, his girlfriend, was disingenuous at the very least. VM did not provide credible answers for why she so erroneously
believed the Tenant could fulfill any orders she arranged with clients when she
arranged the orders while in the Tenant’s own home, in his presence, and on
such intimate terms with him that
they shared phones.
 
38.  It is undisputed that the Tenant ran large gatherings
with massive amounts of food from the rental unit on Fridays. The Tenant’s evidence that these events
were only for friends and family, and that no one ever paid a penny for them
was not credible. The Landlord
testified that he saw people coming and going from the rental unit on a Friday,
and AP said that one of her investigators actually
picked up an order
from the rental unit, and that
he observed a commercial catering business being run from the rental unit.
 
39.  The Tenant provided no evidence at all of where
exactly he cooks for his catering business,
except to say he cooks at “community centres” and various
kitchens. He said that he cooks at the neighbours. However, KW, the neighbour who gave evidence, was not asked, nor did he
mention, the Tenant cooking at his house.
 
40.  I find, based on my analysis of the evidence above,
that the Tenant breached the mediated agreement. He continued to carry out mass commercial catering from the
rental unit despite concluding a mediated agreement
arrived at with the help of his legal
representative to cease running this business.
He breached the agreement almost immediately, and he continued to breach
it, even though he was well aware of the consequences of breaching the
agreement.
 
41.  As a result
of my finding above, I find that it would be futile to
reinstate the original mediated
agreement. The Tenant’s actions
demonstrate that he did not enter the agreement in good faith, and
that there is little prospect he would abide by it.
 
42.  Having considered all of the disclosed circumstances
in accordance with subsection 78(11) of the Act, I find that it would be unfair to set aside the eviction order. In particular, the Tenant is unlikely to
cease carrying out a commercial catering business from the rental unit. The Tenant’s catering business, run
without the requisite permits and public health oversight, threatens the safety
of other tenants, neighbours and patrons. Without
the proper permits and oversight it is illegal, and it has imposed substantial
costs on the Landlord. The evidence
is that the Tenant has been running the business since the mediated agreement, and it has continued to threaten the Landlord with bylaw and health violation orders. The
Tenant concluded the agreement in March, 2021, and he has already had a further
10 months to look for alternative places to live and to run his business.
 
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The motion to set aside
Order TEL-17226-21, issued
on June 4, 2021,
is denied.




 
2.    
The stay of order
TEL-17226-21 is lifted
immediately.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
February 2, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

