Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-16
File number:	
TEL-18183-21

Citation:	Caslangen v Maiwat, 2022 CanLII 118528 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jthkm>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
File Number: TEL-18183-21
 



In the matter
of:


19
  EASTPORT DRIVE SCARBOROUGH ON M1C5G2


 




Between:


Nathaniel Caslangen Ma Eonna Caslangen


Landlords




 


and


 




 


Cristopher De Maiwat Luisa De Maiwat
Raphael Louie De Maiwat Rianne Kriselle De Maiwat


Tenants



 
Nathaniel Caslangen and Ma Eonna Caslangen (the 'Landlords') applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict
Cristopher De Maiwat, Luisa De Maiwat, Raphael Louie De Maiwat and Rianne
Kriselle De Maiwat (the 'Tenants') because
a)    
they, another occupant of the rental
unit or someone
they permitted in the residential complex have wilfully caused
undue damage to the premises
b)    
 used the rental unit or the residential complex
in a manner that is inconsistent with use as a residential premises and that has
caused or can be expected to cause significant damage; because
c)     
they or another occupant of the
rental unit have committed an illegal act or have carried out, or permitted someone
to carry out an illegal
trade, business or occupation in the rental unit or the residential complex
involving the production of an illegal drug, the trafficking in an illegal drug
or the possession of an illegal drug for the purposes of trafficking; and because
d)    
they, another occupant of the rental
unit or a person the Tenants permitted
in the residential complex
have seriously impaired the safety of any person.
 
The Landlords also claimed
compensation for each day the Tenants remained
in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard via video/teleconference on October 19, 2021.
 
Only the Landlords attended the
hearing. As of 4:17 p.m., the Tenants
were not present or represented at the hearing although
properly served with notice of this hearing
by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     On July 19, 2021 the Landlord filed an application to end the tenancy
and evict the Tenants based on a N6 and a N7 notice
of termination given to the Tenants.




 
2.    
The N6 notice alleges that the
Tenants committed an illegal act in the rental unit or the residential complex.
The pleadings in the N7 notice alleges
that the Tenants
are causing serious problems
in the rental unit or the residential complex that impair the safety of another
person.
 
3.     The termination date set out in the notices is June 20, 2021. The Tenants did not move out of the rental unit pursuant to
the notices given.
 
4.    
The Landlord testified that during an inspection of the
residential complex on May 3, 2021
a number of drugs and ‘paraphernalia’ was observed in the unit and professed
that the possession of ‘illegal drugs’ creates a threat to other Tenants that
‘may bring risk of harmful effects upon others to and including the Landlord
while he completes yard work around the residential complex. The Landlord
further alleges issues over smoking that constitutes a breach of the tenancy
agreement between the Landlord and the Tenants.
 
5.    
As part of the Landlord’s application they merely submitted
a number of photographs of the type of drug paraphernalia
observed.
 
6.     Despite that the Tenants did not attend
the hearing to make submissions. Since this is
the Landlord’s application, the Landlord bears the burden of proving
the allegations on a
balance of probabilities.
 
7.    
The standard
of proof requires
that evidence “must always be sufficiently clear, convincing and cogent to satisfy
the balance of probabilities test.”
 
8.    
On any application, but especially on an application like this, a landlord cannot
simply make general allegations against a tenant and expect termination
of the tenancy to follow. A termination of a tenancy must always be a remedy of
last resort.
 
9.    
In my view, and based on the totality
of the documentation presented, all the necessary elements of the alleged offence
have not been made out in this case. It was not sufficiently clear, convincing
and cogent to satisfy the balance of probabilities test.
 
10. 
All in all, I was
not satisfied the Landlord’s evidence is insufficient to rise to the level
necessary to meet the Landlords’ burden of proof
based on a N6 and/or a N7 notice to end the tenancy.
 
11.  Therefore, I find the Landlord failed to prove on a
balance of probabilities that the Tenants have committed
an illegal act in the residential complex
and or the behaviour of the Tenants seriously impaired the
safety of any person.
 
12.  The Landlord’s application to end the tenancy and evict the Tenant is to be dismissed.




 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.   
The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
February 16, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Randy Aulbrook
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

