Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-12
File number:	
TEL-18050-21

Citation:	Paleja v Zhestkov, 2022 CanLII 52463 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jptxb>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TEL-18050-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


1712, 125 VILLAGE GREEN SQUARE
  SCARBOROUGH ON M1S0G3


 




Between:


Bhavin Paleja
  Medha Paleja


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Michael
Zhestkov


Tenant



 
 
 
Bhavin Paleja
and Medha Paleja (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to terminate the
tenancy and evict Michael
Zhestkov (the 'Tenant')
because the Tenant,
another occupant of the rental
unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully
or negligently caused undue damage to the premises.
The Landlords has also applied
for an order requiring the Tenant to
compensate the Landlords for the damage.
The Landlords also claimed compensation for each day the
Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 5, 2021. The Landlords’ legal representative, Sabah Fatima, and
the Tenant attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
This tenancy was
already terminated as of the date of the hearing and the Tenant vacated the rental unit on September
3, 2021. The Landlords were no longer seeking
termination of this tenancy at the hearing.
 
2.    
Most of the facts in
this application are not in dispute. The rental unit is located in a
condominium building. On May 7, 2021 the Tenant intentionally kicked open the
locked door leading to his locker thus causing damage to the door. The condo
corporation subsequently repaired the damage at the cost of $1,644.15, and
charged it back to the Landlords. The Landlords paid the invoice and the Tenant
did not reimburse him. The only issue that is in dispute is whether the Tenant should
be responsible for reimbursing
the Landlords for the cost. For the reasons below I find that the Tenant is.
 
The Landlord’s evidence
 
3.    
Video evidence
submitted by the Landlords shows
the Tenant repeatedly kicking the door leading to the lockers at the
residential complex. After the Tenant kicked the door near




 
the door handle area, the door gave in and the Tenant gained access to the lockers.
This evidence was not seriously challenged or contradicted by the
Tenant.
 
4.    
The Landlords presented
copies of condo corporation’s invoices for $209.05, $322.05 and $1,113.05 for
the cost of temporarily repairing
the door and the door frame and then for the cost of fully repairing/replacing
the door and the locking mechanism. The Landlords submitted proof that they reimbursed the condo corporation for these amounts totalling $1,644.15 on June 9,
2021.
 
The Tenant’s
evidence
 
5.    
The Tenant did not seriously challenge the Landlords’ evidence
but argued that it omitted important context and that the
events of May 7, 2021 should be characterized as him simply gaining access to
his medicine.
 
6.    
The Tenant testified
that he is a disabled person and that he has to take vital heart medicine twice a day. He purchases
this medicine every three months
and stores it in the rental unit. He testified that he kept
emergency supply of this medicine in his locker. He testified that he can not
go more than one day without this medication.
 
7.    
On May 7, 2021 the
Tenant received a letter from the condo corporation advising all residents that locker keys will be replaced for security reasons.
Residents were instructed to return existing keys and
advised that new keys would be available for pickup the next business day. The
letter was sent on Friday and it was the Tenant’s evidence that this meant that
the Tenant would not have access to his locker for almost four days until
Monday, May 10.
 
8.    
After receiving the
notice the Tenant argued with the concierge in an attempt to gain access to his
locker. He did not achieve the desired outcome, went down to the locker room, and kicked the door until it broke and he was able to gain access. He testified that he had to do it because he had to
gain access to vital medicine.
 
9.    
The Tenant also took issue with the condo corporation’s invoices. He argued that they
overpaid for the repairs and that these repairs could and should have been
cheaper.
 
10.  The Tenant did not lead any independent or expert evidence
about the cost of repairs, about his medical condition or
about his medication.
 
Analysis and the law
 
11.  The application was originally
brought under section 62 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the “Act”). However, as the Tenant has since vacated the rental unit, the
application effectively proceeded under section 89 of the Act, and the
Landlords sought compensation only for the damage done.
 
12.  In order to be successful in an application under subsection 89, a
landlord must prove on a balance of
probabilities that:




 
a.   
The damage
in question is “undue”, i.e. not wear and tear caused by ordinary
usage;
b.   
The Tenant,
an occupant or a guest
either wilfully (deliberately) or negligently
(carelessly) caused the damage; and
c.   
If the above two criteria are satisfied, the Landlord must lead evidence
of the reasonable cost of
repairing or replacing the damage.
 
13.  I find that the Landlords proved all of these
components on the balance of probabilities.
 
14.  The damage is clearly undue.
Repeatedly and intentionally kicking a door until the door
and the locking mechanism no longer restrict access to an area can only be
characterized as undue damage.
 
15.  The Landlord proved that the reasonable
cost of repair was $1,644.15. The Landlord’s evidence shows that this is the
cost incurred by the condo corporation and paid by the Landlord. The Tenant’s
argument that the invoice was inflated was unsupported by any independent or documentary evidence. I prefer the Landlord’s documentary evidence on this
point over the Tenant’s unsubstantiated non-expert personal opinion that these
repairs could have been done differently.
 
16.  Finally,
I find that the damage
was wilfully caused
by the Tenant. The Tenant
intentionally kicked the door until it broke and plain reading of
section 89 leads me to conclude that the
damage was caused by the Tenant’s wilful actions. The Tenant’s argument seems
to be that the damage was caused by the condo corporation’s decision to
restrict access to his locker. He argued that he did not break down the door but simply gained
access to his vital medication almost inadvertently
causing damage to the door in the process. He argued that he should have access
to his locker 24/7.
 
17.  The Tenant did not provide,
and I am not aware of, any legal authority
that would support the Tenant’s position.
I therefore find that the Landlord proved its case under s. 89 of the Act as the Tenant’s own evidence demonstrate undue
and wilful nature of the damage. I will nevertheless briefly address the
Tenant’s argument below.
 
18.  Even if an argument similar
to the Tenant’s argument could theoretically succeed,
I find that it is more likely
than not the Tenant wilfully or negligently caused the damage at issue in the
circumstances.
 
19.  If the Tenant needed to gain access to his
medication in an urgent manner, I find that he at least negligently caused
undue damage to the rental unit. The Tenant failed to investigate any
alternatives that may have been available to him after his attempts to argue
with the concierge were unsuccessful. On cross-examination he admitted that he
didn’t call a locksmith. He did not lead any evidence that he escalated his
complaint beyond the concierge or otherwise attempted to bring his medical
condition to the attention of the condo corporation. The Tenant’s evidence was
that he was able to go without his medication for a day, but he chose to break
the door down some 45-60 minutes after he started his argument with the concierge. Even if the chain of events was started by the condo corporation, it
seems quite likely that the damage would have been




 
avoided but for the Tenant’s negligent failure to investigate any alternatives to immediately breaking down the door.
 
20.  I also did not find the Tenant’s testimony
about these events to be reliable for several reasons. The Tenant did not
provide any detail about his health or about his medications that would help
the Board ascertain the degree of medical emergency he was in or to establish
that he could not wait until Monday May 10, 2021. He testified that he was
supposed to take his medication twice a day but could
go without this medication for a full day. It was his evidence that he
could not go without it for 4 days but I am unable to determine the accuracy of
this statement or the source of the Tenant’s belief. While it is understandable
that the Tenant might choose not to disclose his medical information, all of
these concerns taken together make it difficult for the Board to rely on the
Tenant’s version of events. The Tenant also did not testify
that he ran out of the
medicine stored at the rental unit
when he presented his case. He provided this crucial piece of information only
when he was asked about it. Finally, he was argumentative throughout the
hearing and refused to admit clear and simple facts that later turned out to be
undisputed.
 
21.  Based on all of the evidence adduced at the hearing I find that The Tenant has wilfully or
negligently caused undue damage to the residential complex.
 
22.  This order contains
all of the reasons in this matter
and no further reasons will
issue.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Tenant
shall pay to the Landlords $1,644.15, which represents the reasonable costs of repairing the damage.
 
2.    
The Tenant
shall also pay to the Landlords $186.00
for the cost of filing
the application.
 
3.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlords the full amount
owing on or before January
23, 2022, the Tenant will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from January 24, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
January 12, 2022                                                                                                                                                 Date Issued                                                                      Vladimir Nikitin
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland
Avenue, Unit 2 Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

