Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-12
File number:	
TET-11935-20

Citation:	Mitchell v Toronto Guild Investments Limited, 2022 CanLII 57962 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq2xf>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TET-11935-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


12, 1240 ILONA
PARK ROAD PICKERING ON
  L1W1E4


 




Between:


Greg Mitchell
  Lisa Novotny


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Toronto
Guild Investments Limited


Landlord



 
 
Greg Mitchell
and Lisa Novotny (the 'Tenants’) applied for an order determining that Toronto
Guild Investments Limited
(the 'Landlord') substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their household.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 5, 2021. The Tenants and the
Landlord’s agent Mark Janzen attended the hearing.
 
Reasons:
 
1.    
This is a T2 application in which the Tenants assert that the Landlord was in breach of
section 23 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’), which
provides:
 
22 A landlord
shall not at any time during a
tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit and before the day on which an order
evicting the tenant is executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all
usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.
 
2.    
In brief summary of the
Tenants’ allegations, the Tenants allege issues with respect to second-hand smoke, rats, windows,
smoke and carbon monoxide detectors, drug dealing in the
residential complex and a breach of privacy or confidentiality.
 
Second-Hand Smoke
 
3.    
As noted in Board
Interpretation Guideline 6, Tenant Rights, landlords have a positive
obligation to provide quiet enjoyment and take reasonable action to address
another tenant's conduct that disturbs the complaining tenant.
If the landlord fails to reasonably
respond to the complaints, the landlord may be in breach of section 22. While
the landlord in such a situation is not directly responsible for the actions of
the offending




 
tenant, the landlord's responsibility is linked to a failure
to take reasonably necessary
actions to ensure that the
complaining tenants could reasonably enjoy
the premises.
 
4.    
The following
facts were uncontested.
 
5.    
The Tenants
are former smokers
who quit in 2018 and 2019, respectively. The tenants on either side of the Tenants’ unit are
both smokers. The Tenants complained to the superintendent about the smell of
smoke infiltrating their unit on March 5, 2020. The superintendent admitted the
she herself was smoking and stated that she would stop, indicating that the
smell of smoke may also be coming from unit 10 as well. The Tenants wrote to
the superintendent again on March 20, 2020 and raised concerns about the effect
of second-hand smoke on their baby. The superintendent responded that she had been
using an air filter in hopes that this would solve the issue but would now
smoke outside. The Tenants then wrote to the Landlord’s agent to advise that
the issue was ongoing, reiterating their concern about their and their son’s health. The Landlord’s agent replied by e-mail on April 14, 2020 stating
that he understood that the superintendent was not smoking in her unit anymore,
stating that he would talk with the tenant of unit 10 and suggesting that
sealing could be put around the joists in the basement. The Landlord’s agent
replied again on April 15, 2020 stating that a solution would have to wait due
to the COVID-19 pandemic, but that he would send someone named Salim to do the
sealing with fire stop foam spray. The Tenants vacated the rental unit on July
31, 2020.
 
6.    
Mr. Mitchell
testified that nothing
was done and that the smell of smoke continued to
infiltrate the
Tenants’ unit. He explained that the smell of smoke could not be detected all
day every day but that there was a strong
odour of cigarette
smoke at least every day. He
explained that the smell was strongest in the
basement and the main floor of the unit and was detectable to a lesser
extent in the upstairs. He explained that the regular smell of smoke affected
the Tenants’ ability to enjoy the rental unit and that the second-hand smoke
was unhealthy, including for the Tenants’ new baby. One of the main reasons the
Tenants moved out of the rental unit was because of the ongoing smell of smoke.
 
7.    
The Landlord’s agent
testified that he was aware of the issue, that he asked the neighbouring tenants
to stop smoking, that he planned to do the work referenced in his e- mails, that the COVID-19 pandemic and
his own health issues prevented him from doing this work and that once he
received a notice of termination from the Tenants he took no further action. He
also explained that it was difficult to control smoking in adjacent units and
that the work to fix the problem would be costly and difficult. The Landlord’s
agent also suggested that the smell of smoke could be residual smoke from the
Tenants’ past- history of smoking.
 
8.    
In TNT-83545-16 (Re),
2016 CanLII 72018 (ON LTB), which is also a case where other tenants of the residential complex were permitted to smoke in their units,
the Board found that the Landlord’s failure to take
reasonable and active steps to prevent the smell of smoke from entering the
rental unit from a neighbouring unit constituted a substantial interference
with the tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. I reach the same
conclusion because my view is that the Landlord’s response to the Tenants’
concerns about second-hand smoke infiltrating the rental unit was not timely or
reasonable.




 
9.    
First, there was no
evidence to support the Landlord’s theory that the Tenants may have contributed
to the smell of smoke in their unit by their own past testimony. The Tenants
confirmed on cross-examination that they never smoked
in the rental unit even when they themselves were smokers. Second,
although the COVID-19
pandemic and the Landlord’s
agent’s own health issues are noted, these issues do not relieve the Landlord
of its obligations under the Act. The Landlord’s own message to the Tenants
suggested that a person by the name of Salim was available to attempt some work
and there was no evidence that Salim faced any barriers to doing the work.
Third, a reasonable response which the Landlord ought to but did not explore
was issuing N5 notices of termination to the tenants who were smoking in the
rental unit. As explained in TEL-74017-16-RV (Re), 2016 CanLII 100370
(ON LTB), smoking in a rental unit, even where a tenant’s lease permits it, may
in fact result in eviction if the activity substantially interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment or a lawful right, privilege or interest of the landlord
or another tenant. Finally, the Landlord’s decision to take no action once it
was known that the Tenants were vacating is in itself unreasonable because the
Tenants are entitled to quiet enjoyment of the rental unit for the duration of
their tenancy.
 
Remedy
 
10.  The Tenants requested
a rent abatement and moving
and storage costs.
 
11.  The Tenants are entitled to a
rent abatement for the period March 5, 2020 to July 31, 2020. The monthly rent was $1,556.00.
The question in this case is the appropriate quantum.
 
12.  After reviewing the Board’s jurisprudence
on this issue – including the decisions in TTTST-14498-11 (Re), 2011
CanLII 50644 (ON LTB); TST-38271-13 (Re), 2013 CanLII 51007 (ON LTB); TST-69619-15
(Re), 2016 CanLII 40107 (ON LTB); SWT-16361-18 (Re), 2018 CanLII 88687 (ON
LTB) – the Board has awarded abatements of between 10% and 25% of the monthly
rent depending on the circumstances, including whether the affected tenant(s) attempted to
mitigate their losses as required by section 16 of the Act.
 
13.  My view is that an abatement of 15% is
appropriate as there was no evidence that the Tenants attempted to mitigate
or minimize the impact
of the second-hand smoke entering the rental unit (e.g. purchasing
an air-filter). The total amount awarded will therefore be
$1,143.34: $1,556.00
x 15% x 12 months
/ 365 days x 149 days.
 
14.  The Tenants testified that the reason they
decided to vacate the rental unit was, in significant part, because the
Landlord was not responding to the issue of the second- hand smoke. The Tenants
had a baby and were concerned about the health of their child.
On this issue, the Tenants presented an invoice dated July 31, 2020 from The
Honest Movers LTD confirming that the Tenants paid $2,104.63 for moving
expenses.
 
15.  While the Landlord attempted to suggest
that the Tenants would have vacated the rental unit regardless of the smoking
issue this was speculation. The Landlord’s agent put this question to the Tenants
on cross-examination and the Tenants
denied this was the
case. The Tenants explained that they generally enjoyed living in the
rental unit, found that it




 
was a great space and also testified that the rent was
fair and that apart from the issues raised on the application that the
Landlord’s agent was also fair and reasonable.
 
16.  In these circumstances, I accepted the
Tenants’ evidence that the Landlord’s failure to respond to the issue of
second-hand smoke in a timely or reasonable manner induced the Tenants to vacate the rental unit. I
also find that the $2,104.63
paid by the Tenants for moving expenses was reasonable, as
there was no evidence to suggest otherwise. However, since the T2 pleads moving
expenses of $2,100.00 rather than $2,104.63, my finding is that the appropriate
award is $2,100.00.
 
False Claims
 
17.  The Tenant’s vacated
the rental unit on July 31, 2020 and assert that the Landlord’s false claims about items they left behind
constitutes a substantial interference. I have no jurisdiction to consider this
claim for the following reasons.
 
18.  As noted above, section 22 of the Act only
applies “during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit” and only captures
conduct that substantially interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the “rental
unit or the residential complex
in which it is located
for all usual purposes”. The Tenants’ allegation
is that they received an e-mail from the Landlord’s
agent on August 7, 2020 stating
that the Tenants
owe $580.00 for the removal
of garbage left behind
at the end of the tenancy. Even if I were to accept the Tenants’ allegations, the conduct complained of occurred after the Tenants’ occupancy
of the rental unit had ended and this
communication did not interfere with the Tenants’ reasonably enjoyment of a rental unit they no longer occupied.
 
Rats
 
19.  The Tenants claim that there was a rat infestation from the
summer of 2017 onwards and that the Landlord’s response
was insufficient and contrary to treatment protocols found on Health
Canada’s website. They assert that the Landlord
first responded to their complaint about the rats by providing them with a
small plastic package of rat poison
pellets without any instructions on how to use it. They next claim that when
they asked the Landlord to call an exterminator the Landlord refused. They
claim that the could not use their private patio area in the summer of 2019
because the infestation was rampant, that in the winter of 2020 they had to
clean the mess left by the rats getting into their garbage on a daily basis and
that they could not use their patio
in the summer of 2020. They assert that their son could not play outside either in the front yard,
private patio area or back yard due to the rats and their feces. The Tenants’ position was that the Landlord did not begin
to treat the rats until they were leaving, in June or July of 2020.
 
20. 
As noted above, this application is brought
based on the rights and obligations set out in section 22 of the Act, whereas
the substance of the Tenants’
claim respecting the rats is
based on the rights and obligations under subsection 20(1) of the Act, which
provides:
 
20 (1) A landlord
is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in it,
in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with health,
safety, housing and maintenance standards.




 
21.  While this is perhaps a distinction without
a difference, because
I would have reached the same conclusion as set out below if I
considered the issue of the rats under the rubric of section 22 of the Act, the
Tenants ought to have brought this allegation using a T6 form. That being said,
I agree with the Board’s reasoning in TST-69731-16 (Re), 2018 CanLII
140410 (ON LTB) at paras. 9-16. Although the Board in that case refused to hear
a maintenance application filed as a substantial interference application, the
present case is distinguishable in
that there was no evidence to support the proposition that the Tenants
deliberately chose to pursue the issue as a substantial interference as opposed
to making an unsophisticated mistake. In circumstances where the Landlord came
prepared to argue the issue and did not object to my deciding the issue, I
accept that I have jurisdiction to determine whether the Landlord is in breach
of section 20 of the Act.
 
22.  There is also a limitation period issue in
that subsection 29(2) of the Act states that no application may be made “more
than one year after the day the alleged conduct giving rise to the application
occurred”. Relatedly, the Divisional Court in Toronto Community Housing Corporation v. Allan Vlahovich, 2010 ONSC 1686 (CanLII) held that the Board is only permitted to grant remedies in
relation to breaches during this 1-year period. As this application was not
filed until August 11, 2020, and as the Government of Ontario made an Emergency
Order under the Emergency Management and Civil Protection Act suspending
limitation periods and procedural time periods retroactive to March 16, 2020,
the Tenants are only entitled claim a breach
of section 20 of the Act and obtain a remedy for the period beginning March
16, 2019. This means, in part, that the Tenants’ evidence about the appropriateness of the Landlord’s response to the first rat infestation in in 2017 and 2018 is not relevant to this proceeding except for
context.
 
23.  I am not satisfied that the Tenants’
evidence was sufficient to prove this allegation on the
balance of probabilities for the following reasons.
 
24.  The Tenants’ evidence about the period
beginning March 16, 2019 was not specific, lacked important details and was not
corroborated by any additional evidence. For example, when I asked Mr. Mitchell
if the Tenants complained about the rats after 2017/2018, Mr. Mitchell’s
response was imprecise: late 2019 or early 2020. Unlike the issue of second-hand smoke,
where the Tenants
provided copies of e-mails raising
the issue with the Landlord, no such e-mails were disclosed on the issue
of the rats. The
Tenants’
testimony was also not corroborated by any documentation. For example, although
the Tenants’ pleadings assert that in the summer of 2019 the infestation had
become so rampant that they could no longer be outside on their private patio
area, and that in the winter of 2020
the rats chewed into their household garbage bin requiring daily
cleaning, no photographs or other evidence were provided. If the rat
infestation was as the Tenants’ described, there ought to have been many opportunities to provide evidence in support of their claim.
 
25.   In comparison, I
found the Landlord’s agent’s testimony, which was not challenged on
cross-examination, more consistent with the documentary evidence provided. The
Landlord’s agent admitted that there was a rat issue in 2017/2018 after a
neighbouring school was torn down, displacing its rats. He testified that he
instructed his then superintendent Ms. Riseborough to purchase poison
and distribute it around the complex,
that Ms. Riseborough gave the Tenants an additional bag of poison and that the
Tenants




 
refused the
poison for health and safety reasons. The Tenants admitted on cross-
examination that they did not know whether the Landlord had treated the
property apart from giving them an extra
bag of poison. The Landlord’s agent testified that that the initial rat issue was brought
under control in 2018,
that there were no issues
with the rats until a few years later when rats were
displaced from nearby road construction and that the Landlord attempted to
resolve the issue in a progressive fashion: first by trying several poisons and
then by hiring a pest control company in June 2020. The Landlord provided an
invoice from Abell to support this narrative.
 
26.  My conclusion is that there were two
separate rat infestations, one occurring outside of the limitation period and
another commencing in the spring of 2020. This is consistent with the lack of any corroborating evidence of rats in the period from 2018 to 2020. Given the alleged severity of the
issue, including a daily impact on the Tenants and their garbage, my view is
that the Tenants had ample opportunity to collect supporting evidence and that
the absence of such evidence is consistent with the Landlord’s narrative. In my
view, the Landlord’s progressive response to treating the issue, first with
several poisons and then by hiring Abell, was a timely and reasonable response
to the return of the rats. This aspect of the Tenant’s application will
therefore be dismissed.
 
Windows, Smoke and Carbon
Monoxide Detectors and Breach of
Confidentiality
 
27.  The Tenants did not present
evidence on these issues and these
aspects of the Tenants’
application will therefore be dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants
$3,243.34, which represents the rent abatement and reasonable out-of-pocket
moving expenses in relation to the second-hand smoke.
 
2.    
The Landlord shall also pay to the Tenants
$48.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
3.    
The total
amount the Landlord
owes the Tenants
is $3,291.34.
 
4.    
The Landlord shall pay to the Tenants the full amount
owing by January
23, 2022.
 
5.    
If the Landlord does
not pay the Tenants the full amount owing by January 23, 2022 the Landlord will start to owe interest.
This will be simple interest
calculated from January
24, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
6.    
The Tenants have the right, at any time, to collect the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
 




January 12, 2022 Date Issued
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland
Avenue, Unit 2



 
 
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

