Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
TET-12576-20

Citation:	Walters v UNIC Enterprise Inc., 2022 CanLII 54187 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpx6r>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
9(2)
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: TET-12576-20
 
 



In the
  matter of:


759 KINGSTON ROAD WEST
  AJAX ON L1S6J3


 




Between:


Terry Walters


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


UNIC Enterprise Inc.


Landlord



 
 
Terry Walters (the 'Tenant') applied
for an order to determine
whether the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') applies.
 
This application was heard by video conference on December 14, 2021.
 
The Tenant,
the Tenant’s Legal Representative, Wendy Burgess, the Landlord, Diane
Morey, and the Landlord’s
Legal Representative, Travis King, attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
Tenant’s evidence
and submissions
 
1.    
The Tenant’s Legal
Representative submitted that the Tenant has lived full-time in his trailer
located on the Landlord’s commercial site for approximately four years. The
Tenant’s Legal Representative submitted pictures of the Tenant’s
trailer unit that showed
a kitchen, a refrigerator, a bedroom and other aspects of the Tenant’s trailer
consistent with residential occupation. The Tenant’s Legal Representative also
stated that a yard maintenance worker employed by the Landlord was aware that
the Tenant was living on the property full time.
 
2.    
The Tenant
added that he uses a generator for power and has water
at his trailer.
 
Landlord’s evidence
and submissions
 
3.    
The Landlord’s Legal
Representative submitted a letter from the Tenant’s lawyer dated April 25, 2016
stating that the Tenant intends to maintain his office trailer on the
commercial property and would sometimes use his office in excess of normal
business hours due to his work arrangements with other business parties. The
Landlord’s Legal Representative stated the Tenant was allowed to stay on the
property with his trailer on this basis. It was also noted that the letter
listed the Tenant’s
address in Scarborough as




 
his principal residence. The Landlord’s Legal Representative asserted
that the Tenant was now living in his commercial
trailer under false pretenses.
 
4.    
The Landlord’s Legal
Representative also submitted that the Landlord and the Tenant entered into a
commercial agreement for the sole purpose of permitting the Tenant to conduct a
business on the Landlord’s commercial property and that there was no agreement
in place permitting anyone to live on the property. The property contains an
eavestroughing and sheet metal business
with a large yard where cars and other vehicles could be stored. There were no
residential tenants living on this property and residential use is not
permitted by the zoning by-law. Further, there is no hydro or water service
provided on the property outside of the office building.
 
5.    
The Landlord’s Legal Representative further
submitted that the Landlord has been trying to remove the Tenant’s residential
trailer from the commercial property for more than a year and a half. This
process started once the Landlord was aware that the Tenant was actually living
on the property as opposed to conducting a business there. The Tenant never
asked the Landlord for permission to live in the trailer.
 
Analysis
 
6.    
Based upon the evidence
presented, I am not satisfied that the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (Act) applies to the trailer occupied
by the Tenant.
 
7.    
In order for the Act to
apply, there must be a “tenancy agreement” between a landlord and tenant
in respect of a “rental
unit”. These terms are defined
in section 2(1) of the Act
as follows:
 
“rental unit” means any living accommodation used or intended
for use as rented residential
premises, and “rental unit” includes,
(a)          
a site
for a mobile home or site on which there is a land lease home used or intended
for use as rented residential premises, and
(b)          
a room
in a boarding house, rooming house or lodging house and a unit in a care home.
“tenancy agreement” means a written,
oral or implied agreement between a tenant and a landlord for occupancy of a
rental unit and includes a licence to occupy a rental unit.
 
8.    
In this case, the
parties never entered into a tenancy agreement for a rental unit. The parties
entered into a commercial lease
which provided the Tenant with the
right to place a trailer on the Landlord’s commercial site for the
purpose of engaging in commercial activity. Based on the lease, the letter from
the Tenant’s lawyer and the commercial nature
of the property, it is clear that the Landlord
did not intend
to enter into a residential tenancy with the Tenant. The
Tenant was not entitled to unilaterally convert the commercially tenancy into a
residential tenancy. The Landlord never consented to the Tenant living in the
trailer and took steps to evict the
Tenant after becoming aware of the
fact he was living there.
 
9.    
This order
contains all of the reasons
in this matter
and no further reasons will be
issued.




 
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the
'Act') does not apply in this matter.
 
 
 
 




January 5, 2022


 Michael Di Salle 




Date Issued                                                                      Michael
Di Salle
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland
Avenue, Unit 2 Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

