Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-12
File number:	
TET-12079-20

Citation:	Sood v Khilla, 2022 CanLII 57907 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq2xg>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TET-12079-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


19 MAYFLOWER AVENUE SCARBOROUGH ON M1R4W9


 




Between:


Megha Sood Vaibhav
Chopra


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Nabil Khilla Hanan Atala


Landlords



 
 
 
Megha Sood and
Vaibhav Chopra (the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that Nabil
Khilla and Hanan Atala (the 'Landlords') or the Landlords’ superintendent or the Landlords’ agent harassed, obstructed, coerced,
threatened or interfered with them and substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants
or by a member of their household.
 
This application was heard by teleconference on December 10, 2021.
The Tenants and the Landlords attended the hearing.
Amendments:
 
1.    
The application is amended on consent as
follows:
 
a)    
to add Hanan Atala as a
Landlord;
 
b)    
to change
the rent abatement claimed from $500.00
in total to $500.00 per month
for the period during which the problems allegedly occurred;
 
c)     
to add an issue regarding air conditioning.
 
2.   
The Tenants
filed other proposed
amendments prior to the hearing.
They proposed to add
issues about a non-functioning range hood and lawn maintenance. These issues
are framed as maintenance issues: the Tenants’ complaints are that the range
hood is not working, the equipment to maintain the lawn is not working, and the
Landlords have not maintained the lawn.
The Tenants do not allege
substantial interference or harassment for these issues (the latter would be a
difficult argument in any event) and so I denied the




 
Tenants’ request
to amend their T2 application to add these issues, which should have been raised in a T6 application.
 
Determinations:
 
3.    
The rental
unit is the upper part of a house. The Tenants moved into the rental unit on September 28,
2019. The Tenants moved out in November 2020.
 
Garbage
 
4.     The tenancy agreement
provides that the Tenants have use of the backyard
and driveway.
 
5.    
In their application
the Tenants allege that the Landlords substantially interfered with their
reasonable enjoyment of the premises by leaving garbage in the backyard. The
Tenants testified that when they viewed
the property before
entering into the lease agreement, they noticed garbage in the backyard and the Landlords promised
to remove it. The Tenants testified that the Landlords did nothing about the
garbage until July 2020.
 
6.    
The Tenants
filed photographs, taken
on various dates in the spring and summer of 2020,
showing the following:
 
•        
a basketball hoop and bicycle
against the side wall of the house on the edge
of the driveway (there are pizza boxes under the bicycle),
•        
a white board laying on the ground just behind the house,
•        
a bright
blue plastic bin containing garbage
(styrofoam and plastic
wrap) behind the shed in the backyard, and
•        
a grey plastic storage
bin filled with dirty water behind the shed.
 
7.    
The Tenants
testified that they had use of a shed in the backyard, but it was not useable.
The Tenants filed a photograph showing the inside of the shed. It is
dirty, disorganized, and contains a lot of discarded items and refuse. The
Tenants testified that the only thing they could keep in there was the box for
a barbeque that they bought in July 2020.
 
8.    
The Tenants also filed
a photograph of an old ragged sofa just behind the house. They testified that
they took this photograph in March 2020. The photograph of the white board
behind the house, taken in the summer of 2020 does not show this sofa. The Tenants did not
testify as to how long the sofa was at the property but they did testify that
it was removed in May 2020.
 
9.    
The Tenants
also filed a photograph of garbage bins containing garbage,
yard waste, paper and dirty water, located
against the fence on the side of the driveway
opposite of the house.
The Tenants testified that they took this photograph on July 14, 2020. The
Tenants did not testify as to how long this garbage was there.
 
10.  The Tenants also filed a photograph of some garbage
bags at the curb in front
of the house that were there for a week. This evidence is irrelevant
to the application, which complains about garbage in the backyard and the shed.




 
11.  The Tenants testified that because of the
garbage in the backyard they could not use the backyard. They testified that in
May 2020 they cleaned up the garbage, except inside the shed, and that in July 2020 the Landlords
cleaned up the shed. The Tenants testified that it took an hour
to clean up the garbage.
 
12.  The Tenants testified that they complained about the garbage
to the Landlords multiple times. The Tenants filed copies of text
messages to the Landlords showing that they complained in March and May of
2020. There are other text messages that refer to the garbage
but they are not dated.
 
13.  The Landlords testified that they cleaned
up all of the garbage
in November 2019 but the garbage kept coming back.
 
14.  It is uncontested that the backyard
area had garbage
in it. The parties disagree
as to when it was cleaned
and by whom. There are several text messages from the Tenants complaining about
the garbage situation in March and
May 2020. These texts refer to a problem that has existed since the beginning of
the tenancy. The Landlords filed no evidence that they responded to these texts asking what the Tenants
are talking about,
referring to the cleaning
that they did in November 2019, or asking how garbage could have accumulated
after then. For these reasons, I
prefer the Tenants’ evidence to the Landlords’ evidence as to when the garbage
was cleaned up and by whom.
 
15.  Based on the above I find, on a balance of
probabilities, that there was garbage of various kinds in the backyard
from September 28, 2019 to May 16, 2020 and that the shed was dirty
and full of garbage from September 28, 2019 to July 1, 2020. I find that this
substantially interfered with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the
premises.
 
16.  The Tenants testified that they have a
dog and that because of the
condition of the backyard they could
not let their dog out there. The Tenants adopted their dog in September 2020. I
therefore cannot consider this as an impact on the Tenants by the garbage in
the backyard before July 2020. The application states that the garbage was a
problem from September 2019 to July 2020 when it was cleaned up. The Tenants
have filed proposed
amendments to their application but did not propose to amend
it to include a further
allegation that there was new
garbage in the backyard after July 2020. I therefore cannot consider any
evidence of garbage after July 2020 as the Landlords were not put on notice
that this would be an issue at the hearing.
 
17.  The Tenants took one hour to clean up the garbage in the yard in May 2020. They could have done this earlier but decided not to
do so because this as the Landlord’s responsibility. Section 16 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) provides as follows: “When a landlord or a
tenant becomes liable to pay any amount as a result of a breach of a tenancy
agreement, the person entitled to claim the amount has a duty to take
reasonable steps to minimize the person’s losses.” This section codifies the common law principle of the duty to
mitigate. The Tenants had an obligation to take reasonable steps to rectify the
backyard situation so that they could enjoy the backyard. One hour of work
rectified the situation; they could have done this in November of 2019 but
decided to refrain from using the backyard instead.




 
 
 
18.  The garbage of which the Tenants complain
appears annoying but is only at the perimeters of the property and inside the shed.
 
19.  After considering the nature of the
problem, the impact on the Tenants, the duration of the problem and the Tenants’
failure to mitigate
their losses, I find that the Tenants
are entitled to a lump sum rent abatement of $200.00.
 
Car in driveway
 
20.  In the application the Tenants allege
that when they moved in a car was permanently parked in the back part of the driveway, blocking the Tenants
from keeping their waste bins at the back and as a result the bins would crash
against the Tenants’ car and raccoons would run on the Tenants’ car (which was
parked in the front of the driveway).
 
21.  The other car belonged to the tenants
downstairs. The other car was removed in July 2020.
 
22.  The Tenants gave no evidence
that the garbage
bins or raccoons caused damage
to their car.
 
23.  Because the Tenants gave no evidence of any
negative impact that this issue had on them (other than that it was annoying to
keep the waste bins at the front) I cannot find that this issue constitutes
substantial interference with their reasonable enjoyment of the premises. The car may have somewhat interfered with their reasonable enjoyment but not substantially.
 
Utility bills
 
24.  The tenancy agreement
provides that during the tenancy
the Tenants would pay for 60% of the utilities costs and the basement
tenants would pay for 40% of the utilities costs.
 
25.  It is uncontested that the basement tenants
stopped paying their share of the utilities costs about 6 weeks after
the Tenants moved in. The Tenants then paid 100% of the utilities costs and complained to the Landlords.
 
26.  The Tenants took the position that their
added costs were $1,381.00 and they deducted
this amount from their rent to the Landlords. The Landlords did not agree that
the Tenants had incurred this amount of additional utilities costs. The Tenants
did not file any of the utilities bills showing how much was charged utilities
during the material
time and so there is no way to calculate, based on objective
evidence, the costs incurred by the Tenants. The utilities were in the Tenants’
names and so this evidence was easily obtainable.
 
27.  The Landlords testified that when the
Tenants complained about this issue, they served an N5 notice of termination on the basement
tenants, who then told the Landlords that they had paid for a lot of the outstanding
balance.
 
28.  Based on the Tenants’ lack of evidence, I
cannot find, on a balance of probabilities, that the Tenants paid $1,381.00 in utilities cost shortfalls created
by the downstairs tenants’ failure
to pay their portion of the utilities costs.




 
Air conditioning
 
29.  The Tenants testified
that one day in June 2020 the Tenants noticed
it was uncomfortably hot in
the unit and that the air conditioning appeared to not be working. They spoke
to the downstairs tenants about it and they said the air conditioning was
making them cold so they flipped the breaker,
cutting electricity to the air conditioner. The Tenants reported
this issue to the Landlords the same day. The Tenants
testified that the Landlords told them they would speak to the basement tenants
about it. The Tenants testified that the issue continued throughout July and
August 2020.
 
30.  In cross examination the Tenants testified
that they reported a problem with the air conditioning to the Landlords
on May 27, 2020 and that the Landlords had a technician inspect the air conditioning
unit on June 1, 2020.
31.  The Landlords testified that the moment they learned
that the basement
tenants were flipping the breakers to interfering with the air conditioning
they served the basement tenants
with an N5 notice of termination. The Landlords testified that they also
contacted the fire department and asked if it would be permitted to build a box
around the electrical panel to prevent the basement tenants from accessing it.
The Landlords testified that they were told this is not permitted.
 
32.  The Board’s records
show that the Landlords served
the basement tenants
with an N5 notice of
termination on June 24, 2020 and that this notice alleges that the basement
tenants are interfering with the air conditioning. The Landlords also filed an
L2 application seeking eviction. By the time the hearing was held for this
application, the basement tenants had moved out.
 
33.  For an allegation such as this one, where
the problem is caused
by another tenant
and not by the Landlords, the Tenants must
establish that the Landlords failed to address the issue in a reasonable manner.
In this case the Landlords threatened the basement
tenants with eviction and followed through with their
threat by commencing eviction proceedings. This is the most reasonable way to
address the issue.
 
34.  Further,
the parties agree that the Landlords offered
the Tenants a $100.00 rent abatement
(to be applied toward arrears) for the cost of fans or other equipment they
could use for cooling. The Tenants had asked the Landlords to pay the cost
of a portable air conditioner. The Tenants testified that the cost would be $600.00 or $700.00 for a portable
unit and that they could not afford it. The Tenants
gave no evidence that they considered or researched any less expensive
alternative, like a window air conditioner.
 
35.  In these circumstances it would not be fair to expect
the Landlords to spend $600.00
or
$700.00 on a
second air conditioner for a residential complex that already has a working air
conditioner. I find that the Landlord’s response
to this issue was reasonable and, further, that the
Tenants failed to mitigate the harm
to themselves; they did not look into a less expensive
option such as a window air conditioner, the cost of which would have been
subsidized by
$100.00 by the Landlords.




 
36.  For the reasons above, I cannot find that
the Landlords substantially interfered with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit by failing to address
the air conditioning issue.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlords shall pay
to the Tenants $200.00 as a lump sum rent abatement for substantially interfering with their reasonable enjoyment of the premises with respect to the garbage issue.
 
2.    
The Landlords shall also pay to the Tenants $48.00 for the cost of filing the
application.
 
3.    
The total amount the Landlords owe is
$248.00.
 
4.    
The Landlords
shall pay the Tenants the full amount
owing by January
23, 2022.
 
5.    
If the Landlords do not
pay the Tenants the full amount owing by January 23, 2022, the Landlords will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from January 24, 2022
at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
6.    
The Tenants
have the right, at any time,
to collect the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.












January 12, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Renée
Lang
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland
Avenue, Unit 2 Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
This order contains all reasons for the determinations and order made.
No further reasons
will be issued.
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

