Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-19
File number:	
TET-04085-19

Citation:	Brown v Raju, 2022 CanLII 75215 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrjgf>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
 
 
Order under Section 57
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TET-04085-19
 
 



In the matter
of:


3 FAIRWAY DRIVE SCARBOROUGH ON M1J2R1


 




Between:


Aaron Brown
  Kevin Brown


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Natasha Raju Ramanathan Kumanan


Landlords



 
 
Aaron Brown and Kevin
Brown (‘the Tenants’) applied for an order determining that Natasha Raju and Ramanathan Kumanan (‘the
Landlords’) gave a notice of termination in bad faith.
 
This application was heard via video conference on December 8, 2021.
 
Only the Tenant Kevin
Brown (‘K.B.’), the Landlord Ramanathan Kumanan (‘R.K.’) and the Landlord’s Legal Representative Alvin
Chan attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Tenants rented a fully detached
bungalow from the Landlords for the amount of
$1,425.00 per month, payable
on the 24th day of every month. At the time of entering into the
tenancy in 2018, the Tenants
were aware that the house they were renting was slated
for demolition as the Landlords were going to demolish the house and construct
a new one in its place.
 
2.    
R.K. advised K.B. in a text message on April 28, 2019 that they were planning
to have the construction of their new home begin in August and would
therefore require vacant possession of the rental unit by August 1, 2019:
 
Currently we’re
planning on construction beginning in August
for our new home, we would need the property vacated by August
1…
 
We can drop off the official
notice this week…
 
Our builder asked us for possession sooner so they can start in July 1
but we
figured it would
be better to give
you more time…I’ll email you the notice to end




 
tenancy with a August 1 date so you can
sign and return
to us so we can be on
track for the August 1 date.
 
3.     R.K. emailed an N11 Agreement to End the Tenancy to
K.B. to which K.B. signed voluntarily as he believed the demolition of the
rental unit was imminent. The N11
agreement stated that the Tenant
and Landlord agreed
that the tenancy
would end on August 1, 2019.
 
4.     The Tenants were able to find alternate accommodations
earlier than the stipulated mutual termination
date so K.B. advised the Landlords on May 18, 2019 that they
would vacate the rental
unit on or before June 24, 2019. The Tenants did vacate the rental unit on June 24, 2019 based on the
upcoming demolition.
 
5.    
R.K. testified that his builder
advised him on June 29, 2019 that additional time would be needed for the
demolition and subsequent construction of the new home due to a potential conflict
the builder had with another
project. A copy of correspondence from the builder was
provided to the Board which confirmed:
 
•        
that the Landlord had engaged the builder on April 24, 2018 for the project
at the rental unit;
•        
that on October 3, 2018, the surveying work was completed;
•        
that on March 19, 2019 final drawings had been received
from the architect
firm;
•        
that on April 28, 2019, the builder asked the Landlord
to make plans to have
the property vacated in order to begin next steps for building the new home;
•        
that on June 29, 2019, it was
discovered that there was a potential conflict in timing with another project
which resulted in a delay to the Landlord’s construction of the new home. The delay was for approximately 8-10
months in duration.
 
6.    
R.K. did consider asking the
Tenants to return to the rental unit but it was felt that only five days had
passed since the Tenants vacated and were living elsewhere, it did not make sense to
contact the Tenants. As a result of the revision
to the builder’s timeline to demolish the rental unit, the rental
unit was advertised for rent and was rented to new tenant on August 1, 2019.
 
7.     R.K. stated that a building permit was not yet
obtained but the builder had drawings prepared
and the Landlords were following the advice of the builder
who stated that they
were going to obtain the necessary permits once the property was vacant. R.K. confirmed that he hired the builder
to handle all of the details of the demolition and construction of the new
home, all of the details were in the builder’s hands.
 
8.     R.K. testified that the house was actually never
demolished and re-built as they had planned.
The construction firm had indicated in late June,
2019 that due to
their potential conflict, the project
would not have started until 8-10 months later and then the COVID pandemic
started. R.K. stated that his spouse
became unemployed as a result of the COVID pandemic and they had to list the
property for sale due to changes in their financial situation. The property sold in August, 2020.




 
The Law/Analysis:
 
9.    
This application was brought
pursuant to s. 57(1)(c) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’) which states:
 
The Board may make an order described in subsection (3) if, on application by a
former tenant of a rental unit, the Board determines that,
 
…
 
(c) the landlord gave a notice
of termination under section 50 in bad faith, the former tenant vacated the
rental unit as a result of the notice or as a result of an application to or order
made by the Board based on the notice,
and the landlord did not demolish, convert or repair or renovate the rental
unit within a reasonable time after the former tenant vacated the rental unit.
 
10.  The Board has to first
consider whether a text message sent from the Landlords to the
Tenants on April 28, 2019 is sufficient notice or if the lack of notice
disallows this application under section 57 of the Act. Section 50 of the Act states:
 
A landlord may give notice of termination of a tenancy
if the landlord requires
possession of the rental unit in order to,
 
(a) demolish it;
…
 
11.  Section 202 of the Act
permits the Board
to ascertain the real substance
of any transaction:
 
In making findings on an application, the Board shall ascertain the real substance
of all transactions and activities relating to a residential complex or
a rental unit and the good faith of the participants and in doing so,
 
(a)  
may disregard the outward
form of a transaction or the separate corporate existence of
participants; and
 
(b)  
may have regard to the pattern
of activities relating
to the residential complex or the rent unit.
 
12.  In this case, while the Landlords did not serve the
Tenants with a notice of termination that complies with section 50 of the Act, the Tenants did receive notice
that the Landlords wanted them to vacate the
rental unit for the purpose of demolition. It was on this basis that the
Tenants vacated the rental unit.
 
13.  It would be unfair to allow the Landlords to circumvent
the Act or escape liability
simply because they failed to comply with the correct procedures.




 
14.  I am
satisfied that when K.B. signed the N11 agreement to terminate the tenancy, he did
so because he believed the rental unit was going to be demolished and only then
commenced their search for accommodations. Finally,
the evidence and submissions from both parties
was that the Tenants did vacate the rental unit because of the notice to
terminate which was again, for the purposes of demolition.
 
15.  Thus, I find that the Landlords gave the Tenants
a notice of termination for the purposes of section 57(1)(c) of the Act.
 
 
Was the Notice to terminate given in bad
faith?
 
16.  The fact that the rental
unit was listed
for rent a few weeks after
the Tenants vacated
the rental unit creates a rebuttable presumption that the Landlords
provided notice in bad faith. In other words, in this case, the burden falls on
the Landlords to establish
whether or not the rebuttable presumption applies.
 
17.  The fact that the Landlords did not have the necessary building permit before they served the Tenant with the notice of termination in my view
does not establish bad faith. Having
the necessary permits is not a prerequisite to serving the Tenant with a notice
of termination, although having the permits is a prerequisite to obtaining an
eviction order from the Board. The
Landlord testified that the construction firm he had hired required the property
to be vacant in order to proceed
with the next steps which included obtaining the necessary permits.
 
18.  I am not satisfied that the Tenants met the burden of
proof to establish that the Landlord served the notice of termination in bad
faith. I say this because the Landlords retained a
construction firm in April of 2018
which started the process towards
the demolition of the
rental unit and the construction of a new home in its place. The Tenants were made aware of the
Landlords plans upon commencing their tenancy, the Landlords had surveying work
completed on the property, had drawings prepared by an architectural firm, relied on opinion of the construction firm
and then proceeded to serve the Tenants with the notice of termination based on
the advice the construction firm provided.
It was not until five days
after the Tenants vacated that the Landlords learned the demolition would be delayed.
While correspondence tendered
at the hearing from the Builder on behalf of the Landlords is
hearsay evidence, I find that it corroborates the Landlords’ testimony.
 
19.  I am satisfied
based on the evidence and submissions, and on a balance of probabilities,
that the Landlords had a genuine intention to demolish the rental unit at the
time the notice to terminate the tenancy was provided to the Tenants.
 
20.  Accordingly, I am not satisfied that the Tenants have
met the tests established under section 57 of the Act
to establish that the Landlords
served a notice
of termination in bad
faith, therefore the Tenants’ T5 application shall be dismissed.




 
21.  This order contains
all of the reasons in this matter and no further reasons
will be issued.
 
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The Tenants’ application is dismissed.
 
 
 
January
19, 2022 Date Issued
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

