Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-26
File number:	
TET-15325-21

Citation:	Dafoe v Balchand, 2022 CanLII 83492 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrwsx>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TET-15325-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


6 OBRIEN STREET MARMORA ON K0K2M0


 




Between:


Jason Dafoe Jeanine Harrison


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Chatebadhur Balchand


Landlord



 
 
Jason Dafoe and Jeanine Harrison
(the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that Chatebadhur Balchand (the 'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or
interfered with them, substantially interfered
with the reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their household and withheld or deliberately interfered with the reasonable supply
of a vital service, care
service, or food that the Landlord is obligated to
supply under the tenancy agreement.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on November 2, 2021.
Only the Tenants Jason Dafoe and Jeanine Harrison attended the hearing. As of 9:45
a.m., the Landlord was not present or represented at the hearing although properly served with notice of
this hearing by the Board.
 
Determinations:
 
T2 Application
 
1.    
The Tenants applied
to the Board with an Application regarding Tenant’ Rights
(‘T2’) regarding the following issues:
a)       The Landlord substantially interfered with their reasonable enjoyment;
b)       The Landlord harassed
them; and
 
c)       
The Landlord withheld the vital service of heat.
 
2.     On any application
before the Board the person making an allegation bears the burden
of proof. This means the Tenants must
lead sufficient evidence to establish that it is more likely than
not that the Landlord did what they allege he did. In this
case, I am not satisfied that Landlord substantially interfered with the
Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment or harassed the
Tenants. I am also not satisfied based on evidence presented at the
hearing that the Landlord
deliberately interfered with or withheld a vital service.




 
3.    
Since the Tenants T2 application
raised allegations under
multiple grounds. For the sake of clarity, I will address
them separately.
 
Substantial Interference
 
4.    
The Tenant listed issues such as: unsafe front stairs in disrepair, missing indoor
and outdoor lights, holes and
cracks in the front door and rodents.
 
5.    
These issues are not properly before me and relate to
maintenance and repair
or T6 Application issues. If the Tenants wish to pursue these issues they would need to bring a
T6 matter to the Board
under s. 30 of
the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).
 
Harassment:
 
6.     The Tenants raised the issue of harassment in relation to;
 
a)      
The Landlord threatening to provide an N12
and use property for his own
use once the Tenants complained
about furnace oil being spilled on their belongings; and
 
b)      
Tenants allegations that the Landlord on
a few different occasions would sit in the driveway, “drink beer and ask Tenants’ kids personal questions about Tenants”.
 
7.     The lack of evidence presented by the Tenants to substantiate their claims of
Landlord harassment through the threat
of providing the Tenants
with an N12 confirmed there is no merit to this claim.
 
8.     As per the Act, the Landlord
has a right to bring an N12 for own use of property.
 
9.    
 I find that there was insufficient evidence
before me to demonstrate that
any conversations had with the children constituted harassment or was
inappropriate. I find that speaking to the Tenants’ children as alleged by the Tenants does not in and of itself constitute harassment alleged
by the Tenants.
 
10. 
The Tenants did not provide enough evidence to demonstrate on a balance of probabilities that the Landlord harassed
the Tenants and as a result the claim of
harassment is denied.
 
 
 
Interference
with Vital Services
 
 
 
11.  The main thrust of the Tenant’s claims in this T2 Application relates to
interference with vital services,
namely lack of heat.
 
12.  Tenant’s evidence was presented by Tenant
Jason Dafoe (‘JD’):




 
•        
JD confirmed moving
into the rental unit of June 24, 2020.
He testified there has been no heat
since that time.
 
•        
JD presented evidence (Tenant Exhibit
#1) text messages with the Landlord Chatebadhur Balchand (‘CB’) regarding lack of
heat, installation of furnace and
consistent no-shows by CB to address
the heat issue.
 
•        
The Tenant testified the Tenants used space
heaters provided by CB for heat given the broken
furnace. The Tenant these were
then the main source of heat in the rental unit.
 
•        
JD testified that
CB has a new furnace installed, however the new furnace was never “hooked up” or operational as it
was installed by an unlicensed technician.
 
•        
JD alleged that his hydro bills increased because of use
of space heaters for heating
in the house.
 
•        
The Tenants submitted post hearing hydro bill submissions, however, they did not lead sufficient evidence
to appropriately explain or confirm that
any alleged hydro increase is specifically a direct result of using space heaters for heat.
 
 
13. 
  With respect to
the allegations concerning the withholding of vital services, the Tenant’s evidence
was with respect to a lack of sufficient heat
in the rental property.
14.   
Subsection 21(1) says:
 
A landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of
a rental unit and before the day on which an order evicting
the tenant is executed, withhold the reasonable
supply of any vital service, care service or
food that it is the landlord’s
obligation to supply under the
tenancy agreement or deliberately interfere with the reasonable supply of any
vital service, care service or food.
 
15. 
 Pursuant to s. 2(1) heat is a vital service
“during the part of each year prescribed by the regulations”. Subsection 4(1) of Ontario Regulation
516/06 says that the
prescribed period for heat is September 1 to June 15. This means that during the period
the Tenant is talking about here,
heat was a vital service under the Act.
 
16. 
 The difficulty with the Tenant’s application and submissions concerning the heat is that the evidence is insufficient to establish the Landlord deliberately or intentionally withheld heat. Rather the evidence supports the conclusion that there may have been a maintenance problem
with the rental property’s furnace as
it was not appropriately
installed. The issue of maintenance and whether an abatement would result from a
failure to maintain is simply not before
me on this application.




 
 
 
 
17. 
 Subsection 21(1) does not
apply to a disrepair or maintenance problem. The
wording of the provision shows it is
intended to address the situation where a landlord deliberately
interferes with or withholds a vital service. That is not what happened here, so this
part of the Tenant’s application must be
dismissed.
 
18.  In any event,
even if I were to accept that the failure to
maintain could somehow constitute a deliberate withholding of a vital service, in this case the Tenants failed to take any temperature readings in the
rental unit to demonstrate the lack of heat. JD
provided vague testimony that between
September 1, 2020– June 15th, 2021 the temperature was “as low as 58-62
degrees most mornings.” He did not provide any specific evidence regarding
temperature readings post June 2021. What
this means is that the Tenant failed to lead
any evidence of the exact temperature readings which would establish the
temperature inside the rental unit. The
taking of temperature readings was required because pursuant to section 4 of
Ontario Regulation 516/06 heat is a vital service between September 1 and June 15 and the heating system must be capable of warming the rental unit to a
minimum of 20 degrees Celsius
during that period.
 
19. 
In short, given the Landlord provided space
heaters, I simply cannot find
a deliberate withholding of a
vital service and, in any event,
there is no precise evidence of temperature readings to support the Tenants application. and claim that there was insufficient heat in
the Tenants’ rental unit sometime during the winters of 2020/2021.
20. 
As a result, I am not satisfied that the
Landlord’s breached section 21 the Act. No remedy results from this claim.
 
 
Damage To Property
 
 
1.    
 I am satisfied from the
uncontested text message
evidence (Tenant Exhibit
#1) Text Messages with the Landlord that
there was an oil leak as a result of CB’s actions that damaged JD’s property. The Tenants application requests
a 100% rent abatement for 6 months, property damage, out
of pocket expenses, current and
future hydro payment differential expenses.
 
2.    
 I will allow
reimbursement of $375.00 for
damaged goods and property as
outlined in the T2 application and as supported by receipts provided. The other
remedies claimed are dismissed since the allegations have not been proved.
 
3.    
Although some
receipts were provided in the Tenants’ application. It is unclear what
these expenses relate to. Therefore,
I will not grant the remedy of
out-of-pocket expenses. Some of the
items requested on the application
relate to issues that are not




 
properly before
me as part of a T2 Application and relate more to a
T6 Application as explained above.
 
4.    
Regarding any hydro payment
differential as alleged
by JD, the Tenants failed
to lead any evidence to appropriately explain or confirm
that any alleged hydro increase is specifically a direct result of using
space heaters for heat. The
same is true for any future Hydro differential requested by the Tenants.
 
5.    
The Tenant has incurred the cost of $53.00 for filing the application and is entitled to reimbursement of those costs given the partial granting of the T2.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.      The
Tenant’s claims with respect
to substantial interference with reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit, harassment and vital services are dismissed.
 
2.      The Landlord shall pay to the
Tenants $375.00. This represents the reasonable costs that the Tenants has incurred
in replacing property that was damaged as a result of an
oil spill caused by the Landlord's
actions.
 
3.     
The Landlord shall pay to the Tenants $53.00
for the cost of filing the applicati
on.
 
4.     
The Landlord shall pay the Tenants the full amount owing
by February 9, 2022.
 
5.     
If the Landlord does not pay the Tenants the full amount owing by February 9, 2022, the Landlord will owe interest. This will be simple
interest calculated from February 9, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
6.      The Tenants have the right, at any
time, to collect the full amount
owing or any balance outstanding under this order.
 












January 26, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Kathryn Kertesz
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue,
Unit 2 Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080
or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.




 

