Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
TET-03961-19

Citation:	TET-03961-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 52527 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jptzk>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TET-03961-19
 
 
 
 
 
(LA) and (KA) (the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that BI (the 'Landlord') or the Landlord's
superintendent or the Landlord's agent harassed, obstructed, coerced,
threatened or interfered with them, substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants or
by a member of their household and withheld or deliberately interfered with the
reasonable supply of a vital service, care service, or food that the Landlord
is obligated to supply under the tenancy agreement. (T2 application)
 
The Tenants also applied for an order
determining that the Landlord failed
to meet the Landlord's
maintenance obligations under
the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') or failed
to comply with health,
safety, housing or maintenance standards. (T6 application)
 
This T2/T6 application was heard by teleconference on October 21, 2021.
 
The Tenant
LA, the Tenants’
legal representative S. F, and the Landlord
attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The rental
unit is an apartment on the upper level of a house.
The Tenants moved out of
the unit on August 17, 2020. The Tenants filed these applications on August 19,
2019 (T6) and August 20, 2019 (T2).
 
Remedies
requested
 
2.    
In their T2 application the Tenants request
an order that the Landlord
cease certain conduct and that
the Landlord repair certain maintenance issues.




 
3.    
In their T6 application
the Tenants request an order that the Landlord repair certain maintenance
issues, that the Landlord may not increase the rent until these issues are
resolved and that the Board instruct the Landlord not to harass
the Tenants and to avoid contacting the Tenants unless for
serious issues.
 
4.    
The Tenants
do not request any monetary
remedies in either application. The Tenants
have not requested that either application be amended. Neither party addressed
the issue of monetary remedies at the hearing.
 
5.    
In Beauge v. Metcap
Living Management Inc., 2012 ONSC 1160
(Div. Ct.) (‘Beauge’) the Divisional Court found that the Board had
erred in awarding damages that were not claimed in the tenant’s application and
were not raised at the hearing. I am bound by Beauge and so I cannot
order any remedy that has not been claimed in the Tenants’ applications and
that have not been raised at the hearing. I am therefore prohibited from
ordering any monetary remedy in this case other than the cost of the filing fee (addressed
below).
 
6.    
The only remedies
requested in the applications are no longer applicable because the Tenants have vacated the unit. The Tenants no longer have any interest
in whether the repairs have been done and in how the
Landlord conducts herself.
 
7.    
Because the only remedies
requested are moot, and because
I am bound by Beauge, I cannot order any remedies in this case. It is therefore not
necessary to make determinations on all of the issues claimed in the
application and for which the parties gave evidence at the hearing.
 
Application filing fee
 
8.    
When an applicant is
successful the respondent is usually ordered to pay for the fee for the
application. In this case no remedy can be ordered for technical reasons. The
parties both gave evidence
on a number of maintenance issues. For the purposes of determining
whether the Tenants are entitled
for compensation for the cost of the filing fee, I will make
determinations with respect to the canopy issue.
 
9.    
There is a deck over
the garage at the front of the house. The deck is part of the rental unit. When the Tenants
moved into the rental unit, there was a fabric
canopy covering the deck. At the hearing the Tenant LA
testified that over time, with the weather, the canopy degraded. The Tenants filed
a video showing that the canopy was just shreds
of fabric by the fall of 2019 (they moved into the
unit in 2014).
 
10.  The canopy was outside on the front of the
house and so the latest the Landlord would have become aware of this issue, by
her own observation, would be in October 2019 when she had a number
of other maintenance issues repaired
in response to an order by
the City.
 
11.  It is uncontested that the Landlord’s immediate response to this issue was to remove the canopy. The Landlord testified that she replaced the canopy in 2020 some
time after the




 
Tenants moved out. She testified that it took time to replace because
she had to get it made to measure.
 
12.  The Landlord gave no evidence as to when
she started to take steps to replace the canopy and, based on the timing, it
appears more likely than not that she waited until the
Tenants vacated the unit before
repairing this issue. Even if the canopy
had to be custom fit, 10
months is not a reasonable time to take for this repair. I find that in these
circumstances, the Landlord’s response to the issue was unreasonable and so I
find that the Landlord breached her maintenance obligations under s.20 of the
Act with respect to the canopy.
 
13.  The Tenants are successful on at least one of the issues
in their applications and so the Landlord will be ordered to pay the
cost of the filing fee to the Tenants.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants
$50.00 for the cost of filing the
applications.
 
2.    
If the Landlord does
not pay the Tenants the full amount owing by January 16, 2022, the Landlord will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from January
17, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 












January 5, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Renée
Lang
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland
Avenue, Unit 2 Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order, call
416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

