Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
TET-17528-21

Citation:	Clark v  Nowick, 2022 CanLII 54193 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpx6s>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
41
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TET-17528-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


24 COLBORNE STREET
W OSHAWA ON L1G1L4


 




Between:


Cassondra Clark
  Tyler Balson


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Michele
Nowick


Landlord



 
 
 
Cassondra Clark
(‘CC’) and Tyler Balson (‘TB’) (the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining
that Michelle Nowick (the 'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced,
threatened or interfered with them, entered the rental unit illegally, altered the
locking system on a door giving entry to the rental unit or residential complex
without giving them replacement keys and substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants
or by a member of their household; sold, retained or otherwise disposed of the Tenants'
property before 72 hours had elapsed after the Tenants were evicted and did not
make the Tenants' property available to be retrieved at a location close to the
rental unit within 72 hours after the Tenants was evicted.
 
This application was heard in Passcode: 696 8936 9701#
on July 21, 2021.
The Tenants CC and TB and the
Landlord attended the hearing.
As a first
preliminary matter the Landlord testified that one of the individuals who had
been named as a Tenant, being the Landlord’s niece (‘NB’), knew nothing about
this application and did not intend
to be an applicant. The other
named Tenants did not contest this evidence. The names of the Tenants have been amended
in this order to remove the name of NB. The
Landlord also indicated that her name had been spelled
incorrectly in the application. I granted
an amendment to correct the spelling and that amendment is reflected in this
order.
 
There was no question
that the Landlord
had arranged, with the help of police,
for the Tenants
to leave the house owned by the Landlord. However, as a second
preliminary matter the Landlord submitted that there had never been a tenancy
arrangement between the Landlord and the Tenants and that the Residential
Tenancies Act (2006) (the ‘Act’) does not apply in the circumstances. That issue is the focus of this order.
 
The use of the term
‘Tenants’ in this order is a reference to the two applicants and does not imply
any predetermination as to the existence of a tenancy agreement.




 
 
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Tenant CC testified
to the following:
 
a)    
The Landlord’s niece, NB, was staying
in a house owned by the Landlord.
NB was the daughter of the
Landlord’s sister (‘M-A’);
 
b)    
In October 2020 NB
contacted CC to say that she and her boyfriend had broken up and that she needed
help paying for staying
in her aunt’s residence. She invited CC to
move into the house with her;
 
c)     
The Landlord had a
bedroom in the house but was not staying in the house. NB cleared out the Landlord’s bedroom
to allow CC to move into the house and occupy
that room;
 
d)    
CC came to stay in the house. She was joined
at some point, subsequently, by her
boyfriend, the Tenant TB;
 
e)    
CC believed
that at the time she moved into the house
the Landlord lived at another house in Oshawa;
 
f)      
When CC moved into the house
she spoke with the Landlord in the driveway
of the house;
 
g)    
The house
was set up as a duplex. The upper portion
was a 3 bedroom unit. It was occupied by NB, CC, TB, at various
times by M-A and
by two other individuals. The main floor unit was separate from the upper unit and was
occupied by two other people;
 
h)    
In November 2020,
shortly after CC moved into the house, NB’s mother M-A came to stay in the house before leaving to go away on a trip. NB requested
that CC allow M-A to use the room which was being used
by CC. CC agreed and purchased a
couch to allow M-A to use the room in which CC had been staying;
 
i)       
The Landlord
did not stay in the house during
the time that the Tenants
stayed there;
 
j)       
The Landlord
left for California in December 2020,
shortly after CC moved in, and
returned, with her sister M-A, in or about April of 2021;
 
k)     
CC met with the
Landlord around May 2021. The Landlord told CC that the locks to the house had been changed and that whoever
did not have a key fob to the new lock
would not be allowed in the house. The Landlord then gave CC a key fob;




 
l)       
CC was aware that the Landlord
planned to sell the house
and wanted CC and TB out
of the house. There had in fact been
issues around the Landlord’s objections to TB”s truck being in the driveway of
the house; and
 
m)  
CC paid for her occupancy of the unit. She made various payments
to NB up to April 2021. She made one payment directly to the Landlord by way of
electronic funds transfer in May 2021.
 
2.    
The Tenant
TB testified to the following:
 
a)    
He did not witness
the meeting which CC testified she had had with the Landlord in the driveway of the house when CC moved
into the house; and
 
b)    
He never had any communication with the Landlord.
Both he and CC had been told by NB to never speak directly with
the LL in the event she came around the house.
 
3.    
The Landlord
testified to the following:
 
a)    
The house in which the Tenants
have been living is her home. It is the address
which appears on her drivers licence (Exhibit 3);
 
b)    
The Landlord’s niece, NB, was having some difficulties so the Landlord
allowed NB to stay in the house, using the Landlord’s
daughter’s room. The expectation was
that NB would contribute funds to pay the bills;
 
c)     
The Landlord had been distracted over the past year
by issues concerning one of her
daughters and, in order to cope, had been visiting
with another daughter. She stayed with one
daughter in Orillia and then another daughter in Bowmanville from October 2020
through to January 2021. She planned
to go away for some time and then, on her return, to prepare the house for
sale.
 
d)    
NB told the Landlord
that she had a friend staying with her in refuge from her boyfriend. NB
indicated to the Landlord that the arrangement was temporary. The Landlord understood that NB was having
some financial problems so was not surprised
that NB might need help in paying the bills for the house. However
she let NB and M-A know that
she was not a “social services operation” and indicated that CC should make
some financial contribution to assist NB;
 
e)    
The Landlord
did not recall having had any conversation in the driveway
with CC at the time CC came to stay in the house. She denied, in any event, having had any
conversation with CC at any time about CC becoming a tenant in the house;
 
f)      
NB was staying in the Landlord’s house as a guest, using the Landlord’s daughter’s room, and CC was a guest of NB;




 
g)    
The Landlord left on a
trip to the United States in January 2021. She
was away from January 12, 2021 to April
24, 2021. She returned at the same time as her sister,
M-A, returned from a trip away. M-A
stayed at the house on her return;
 
h)     There was no lease agreement between the Landlord
and either CC or TB;
 
i)       
The Landlord knew that
CC had been staying in the house but was unaware that CC was still living in
the house in April 2021 when she returned from the United States. The Landlord
became aware that CC was still in the house when she received a noise
complaint;
 
j)       
The Landlord
never communicated herself
with CC about the payment
of any funds. When NB had indicated to the Landlord that she couldn’t
pay bills, the Landlord inquired into the arrangements between CC and NB. CC
communicated with M-A. CC said she was paying $250.00 per month. It was at this point, in or around April
2021, that CC provided proof to M-A that she had made such a payment;
 
k)     
In or around May 2021
the Landlord understood from M-A that CC and TB were leaving. She met with CC outside the house. The locks had been changed and now
required a key fob. She
understood that her niece NB was away for the weekend and provided CC with a fob to allow her
to have access to the house over the next few days to remove her belongings. She made it clear that the key was not to be provided
to anyone who should not have access to the house;
 
l)       
The Landlord
subsequently understood that both CC and TB had left the house
so she was surprised and upset when she went to the house and saw TB
enter the house with the key fob which she had recently given to CC;
 
m)  
She testified that she did not
recognize any of a series
of texts produced
by CC (Exhibit 2) as evidence
of her communications with the Landlord and did not recognize either of the
telephone numbers showing on those text messages;
 
n)    
There was some dispute
about whether CC ever paid rent directly to
the Landlord. CC referred to one electronic funds transfer that she had made
directly to the Landlord in May 2021. The Landlord was not aware of having
received any electronic funds transfer from CC but
acknowledged that it was possible that she accepted a payment accidentally as
she receives a lot of electronic funds transfer payments; and
 
o)    
She testified that,
regardless of whether she accidentally
accepted a payment directly from CC, she never entered into a tenancy
arrangement with CC or TB. It had
been her intention to sell the home on her return from her travels and she would never have entered into any tenancy agreement or
accepted rent under such an agreement.




 
4.    
I find, as follows,
that the Tenants
have failed to establish that they had any tenancy agreement with the Landlord:
 
a)    
The sole evidence of
any direct communication between CC and the Landlord at the commencement of
CC’s occupancy was CC’s testimony about a brief conversation with the Landlord
in the driveway of the house. I
consider it more likely than not that, if that conversation took place, the
conversation did not entail the Landlord entering into a tenancy agreement
with CC. Any such conversation would be inconsistent with the Landlord’s lack of information about the arrangements
between CC and NB;
 
b)    
The only evidence of
the relationship between NB and the Landlord was the uncontroverted testimony of the Landlord
that NB was a guest in the Landlord’s home. There was no suggestion that NB
acted as an agent for the Landlord in inviting CC to stay with NB in the
Landlord’s house;
 
c)     
The Landlord’s evidence
to the effect that she was not privy to the arrangements between CC and NB was uncontroverted. Had she been a party to an agreement with CC she would have been aware of the
terms of that agreement;
 
d)    
The Tenant CC willingly gave up the room in which she had been staying to allow M-A to occupy the room. I consider this behaviour to be consistent
with CC’s status as a guest in the house;
 
e)    
The Landlord
indicated to M-A and NB, following her return in April 2021,
that both CC and TB were to be out of the house. There was no indication that either CC or
TB took the position that they had a right to stay. Instead, they indicated that they were in
the process of making arrangements to leave; and
 
f)      
It appeared
that the central
point of contact
with respect to any arrangements with CC and/or TB was
NB. NB did not appear at the hearing. NB took the position that she was not an
applicant and wanted no part of the Tenant’s application;
.
5.    
I find that, in the absence
of any tenancy agreement between
the Landlord and the
Tenants, the Act does not apply to the circumstances of the application.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Tenants’
application is dismissed.












January 5, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Lynn Mitchell
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
Toronto East-RO




 
2275 Midland
Avenue, Unit 2 Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

