Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-19
File number:	
TET-12065-20

Citation:	Jaruczek v McIsaac, 2022 CanLII 74903 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrjgh>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
 
 
Order under Section 30 and 31
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: TET-12065-20
TET-12066-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


663 ANTIGUA CRESCENT OSHAWA ON L1J6B5


 




Between:


Jonathon Jaruczek Kelly Tippin-Lawryshyn


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Geraldine McIsaac


Landlord



 
 
 
 
Kelly Tippin- Lawryshyn and
Jonathon Jaruczek (the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that Geraldine McIsaac (the 'Landlord') harassed,
obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with them, entered the rental unit illegally, substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their household and
withheld or deliberately interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital
service, care service, or food that the Landlord is obligated to supply under
the tenancy agreement. (The T2 application)
 
Jonathon Jaruczek (‘J.T.’) and Kelly Tippin-Lawryshyn (‘K.T’) (the 'Tenants') applied for an order
determining that Geraldine McIsaac (the 'Landlord') failed to meet the
Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the 'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety, housing or maintenance
standards. (The T6 application)
 
This application was heard via video conference on December 14, 2021.
Only the Tenants attended the hearing.
Determinations:
 
T2 application
 
1.    
The Tenants rented a basement apartment from the Landlord
and paid a monthly
rent in the amount of
$1,150.00.
 
2.     The Tenants filed a T2 application about
Tenants Rights and a T6 application about maintenance with the Board.




 
 
 
3.    
The Tenants’ T2 application
alleges the Landlord illegally entered the rental unit on a number of
occasions, the Landlord substantially interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit by failing to address their complaints regarding
noise and disturbances from the Landlord’s son , the Landlord harassed and substantially interfered
with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit with respect to the
Landlord’s communications with the Tenants, and the Landlord withheld vital
services.
 
4.     The Tenants state
in their T6 application that the Landlord
did not repair a number
of items in the rental unit including the following:
 
•        
Uneven walkway;
•        
Wooden deck;
•        
Electrical in the rental unit;
•        
Doors and locks; and
•        
Emergency window.
5.    
At the hearing, the Tenants confirmed
that they were seeking the following remedies: T2 application:
•        
an abatement of rent in the amount of $1,150.00;
•        
an Order that the Landlord must pay a fine to the Board; and
•        
An Order that the landlord pay moving and storage expenses
of $653.00.
 
T6 application:
 
•        
An abatement of rent in the amount of $1,150.00; and
•        
Reimbursement for repairs, replacement other work the Tenants did in
the amount of $150.00.
 
6.    
The Tenants testified that they vacated the rental
unit on October 28, 2020 as a result of
an N12 notice to terminate that was served on August 17, 2020.
 
 
Illegal
Entry:
 
7.    
The Tenants were having
issues with hydro
and plumbing when they first
moved into the rental unit in January, 2020 particularly that the hot water tank
was not working properly. The Tenants
felt that the Landlord
did not provide enough notice
as is required under the Act with respect to the
following incidents:
 
•        
On January 23, 2020 at 8:35a.m.
the Landlord texted the Tenants to advise a plumber was coming to the rental
unit at 9:30am which resulted in the water being
shut off for the entire day;




 
 
•        
January 25, 2020 at 7:16am, the Landlord texted the Tenant
J.T. to advise
that the gap around the sink
would be caulked and that a service person was coming at 9:30am however the
Tenant K.T.was sleeping at the time and woke up to find people in the kitchen
and also looked in the furnace room.
 
•        
July 28, 2020, the Landlord provided
no notice but entered
into the rental unit in the company of two by-law officers to
inspect the property;
 
•        
August 18 and 19, 2020, the Landlord and a repairman attended with no notice in response to power-washing the front
porch and needing to do repairs to the cold room after some water leaked into
the rental unit.
 
8.     The Tenants confirmed that one of the above-noted incidents were emergent
and notice should have been
provided.
 
9.     Based on the Tenant’s uncontested testimony, I find,
on a balance of probabilities that the Tenants did not consent
to the entry and that the entry was not to address
an emergency.
 
10.  Section 26 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) states that a landlord may enter a rental unit at any time
without written notice, in cases of emergency or if the tenant consents to the
entry at the time of entry.
 
11.  Section 27 of the Act requires a landlord to
give 24 hours written notice of entry for the purposes of maintenance or
repairs. Based on the above, I find the Landlord entered the rental unit
illegally, as she had not properly served written notice of entry at least 24
hours prior to the entry, the Tenants did not consent to the entry,
and the entry was not to address an emergency.
 
12.  The illegal entry of a rental unit is a breach of a tenant's
privacy.
 
13.  Abatement of the rent is the usual remedy granted in
landlord and tenant matters. It reflects the idea that if a tenant is paying
for a bundle of goods and services and not receiving everything being paid for the tenant is entitled to abatement proportional to the difference in
value of what is being paid for and what is being received.
 
14.  In Wrona v. Toronto Community Housing Corporation (January 24, 2007) [2007] O.J. No. 423 (Div. Ct.), the Divisional court
replaced the decision of the Board and granted the tenant an abatement of
$1,000.00 for a single illegal entry which was well in excess of 100% of the
monthly rent charged.
 
15.  In Wrona, there had been at least one previous
application brought to the tribunal by the tenant about the same issue. In
other words there was a history of dispute between the parties about
what constituted a legal entry.
Here, there was no prior application between the parties so there was no such history. I have
considered however that the Landlord gave very little notice to the Tenants and
on one occasion, the Tenant was woken up to find people in their kitchen.




 
 
16.  Based on the precedent established by Wrona, the difference between
the two cases
and the impact of the illegal entry upon the Tenants, I find that a
reasonable lump sum abatement would be $500.00.
 
Substantial Interference and Harassment:
 
17.  The Tenants testified that text message communications
from the Landlord were harassing. Examples of the text messages were provided by the Tenants at the hearing:
 
•        
June 26, 2020: In response to the Tenants advising the Landlord that there would be a guest staying with the Tenants, the
Landlord responded in a text message: “I rented the place to you and your
boyfriend. That was the agreement we
all made. You and Johnie came highly
recommended! I am comfortable leaving
it like that”.
 
•        
July 8, 2020: “I really feel that Kelly
is not comfortable here. It would make me happy if
you guys find something that suits you better. I am giving
you and Kelly
your notice! Winter is coming
and Kelly is always complaining about
the walkway being slippery. I need
someone in thier [sic] that can handle living in my bsmt”.
 
•        
July 8, 2020 stated “I am going to
do a massive renovation and would like you and your boyfriend to find another place” and “I am renovating and having family move in!”;
 
•        
July 10, 2020 “This is your two month notice to move! I am moving
family in the bsmt
and renovating!”
 
•        
August 5, 2020: “I really think you and Kelly should find a place that you would be
happy. Save us some heartache”
 
•        
August 10, 2020: “….so
I will not be asking
you to move and hopefully you guys do not
have to call the cops”.
 
18.  The Tenants testified that there was excessive noise
coming from the Landlord’s son’s room starting in April, 2020, almost every
night until the Tenants vacated the rental unit on October 28, 2020. The
noise was described as screaming, swearing, yelling stomping, excessive tv and
video game volume, loud voices, and banging on the floor. The Tenants state
that the noise would start around 9:00pm and continue until 5:00 or 6:00am. The Tenants stated that the Landlord did respond to some of their complaints by stating that she would talk to her son and she apologized on
his behalf. However, the noise would
keep the Tenants awake at night so that they could not get a proper night’s
sleep. The Tenants provided excerpts
from text messages showing that they
complained to the Landlord
on some of the following dates and
times:
 
•        
September 9 at 11:55pm;
•        
September 11 at 10:55pm;
•        
September 22 at 2:38am;
•        
September 27 at 11:02pm;




 
 
•        
an unidentified date which states “yesterday” at 12:42am;
•        
October 12th; at 12:17am; and
•        
October 15 at 11:24pm,
:
 
19.  Section 22 of the Act
states:
 
“A landlord shall not at any
time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit and before the day on which
an order evicting the tenant is executed substantially interfere with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or residential complex in which it is
located for all usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.”
 
20.  Section 23 of the Act
states: “A landlord
shall not harass,
obstruct, coerce, threaten
or interfere with a tenant.”
 
21.  There is no definition of “harassment” under
the Act but generally speaking harassment
is usually considered to be a course of conduct that a reasonable person knows or ought to know would be unwelcome.
 
22.  In this case, I am satisfied on a balance of
probabilities that the Landlord knew or ought to have known that the threatening texts suggesting eviction
would be unwelcome. As a
result, these communications constitute harassment pursuant
to section 23 of the Act. I am convinced that the threat of losing
their rental unit caused stress for the Tenants.
 
23.  Further, based on the uncontested evidence and
submissions, I find that noise was ongoing and substantial and that the
Landlord failed to address the Tenants’ noise complaints. I am satisfied, on a balance
of probabilities, that the duration and frequency
of the noise complaints, the impact
it had on the Tenants, and the lack of the Landlord’s response to
resolve these issues was stressful and interfered with the Tenants quiet
enjoyment of the unit.
 
24.  With respect to the
allegations of substantial interference
and harassment, I find that
the Tenants are entitled to a lump sum abatement of rent in the amount of
$500.00.
 
Withheld or interference with vital services
 
25.  The Tenants testified that the rental
unit never had consistent heat, it was either too hot
or appeared to not be operating however, the Tenants were unable to provide me
with details of when this issue arose or with any temperature readings or
documentary evidence to support their position.




 
 
26.  Section 21 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) says:
 
A landlord shall not at any time during
a tenant’s occupancy of a rental
unit…withhold the reasonable supply of any vital service,
care service or food that it
is the landlord’s obligation to supply under the tenancy agreement or
deliberately interfere with the reasonable supply of any vital service, care
service or food.
 
27.  This section of the Act
suggests that, in order to find a breach of the
Act, the Board must
be convinced of an element of intent on the part of a landlord to deliberately
interfere or withhold a vital service from the tenant.
 
28.  While I am satisfied based on the uncontested
evidence, that the rental unit had fluctuating
temperatures, I am not satisfied that this was a deliberate and intentional act by the Landlord. Instead, it appears
that there may be some problem with the heating system and would not constitute
a breach of the Act by the Landlord.
 
29.  However, since the
Tenants have also filed
an application for substance
interference with reasonable enjoyment, the Board is permitted to consider
whether the lack of heat or the extreme heat substantially interfered with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of their
unit. The Tenants did not provide any evidence as to what affect the
lack of heat or extreme heat had on them. I
am therefore not satisfied that the Landlord withheld any vital services nor
this issue substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the unit
and no remedy will be awarded for this claim.
 
30.  The Tenants testified that they vacated the rental
unit as a result of a N12 notice to terminate
and therefore, the other remedies being requested
in the T2 application will not
be considered.
 
 
T6 Application
 
 
31.  The Tenants testified that they first told the
Landlord that the walkway to their rental unit was uneven and awkwardly spaced on January 2, 2020. The Tenant K.T. stated that she has physical restrictions and
has mobility issues such that she must have a clear, solid and stable walkway. The Tenant K.T. testified that the
Landlord was fully aware of her limitations and
that the Tenant K.T. walked with a limp. The Tenants stated that the patio stones
were unevenly laid, not level, loose and rock back and forth should someone
step on them. The Tenants did state
that the Landlord made an attempt to repair the stones by putting
stones between the gaps but the stones quickly scattered and did nothing
to fix the issue. As well, the
Landlord placed rubber mats on the walkway but they were slippery and not
attached to anything so that when one stepped on them, the mats slid causing a
very dangerous route the Tenants had to take in order to gain access to their
rental unit. The Tenants and the
Landlord had several conversations regarding the stones but they have not been repaired.




 
 
32.  The Tenants testified that the outlets and light
switches in the rental unit shocked them and
some of the outlets had no plates on them. The Landlord
was advised of this issue via text and the Tenants sent a
letter to the Landlord on July 9, 2020 to which the Tenants received
no response. A second letter was sent to the Landlord on August 15, 2020 and again, no response was
received.
 
33.  The Tenants state that the front door did not lock nor did it close properly.
At times, the front door would pop open when it’s
windy outside and snow and rain came in as well. These issues were also
addressed in a letter to the Landlord dated July 9, 2020. The Landlord did have someone attend to
investigate this issue but it was never repaired.
 
34.  The Tenants testified that the basement window is so
small that in the event of an emergency, they would not be able to have it as a form of egress. There were initially bars on the window but they were
removed. The Tenants state that because
this is a safety issue, the window should be enlarged to allow egress in
the event of an emergency.
 
35.  The Tenants testified that the deck had rotten and
loose wooden boards so that it was hazardous to walk on and slippery in the
winter. The Tenants told the Landlord
in January, 2020 about
this issue when they first moved
into the rental
unit and also set out
these issues in a letter to the Landlord dated July 9, 2020. The Landlord did eventually fix the deck
just prior to the Tenants vacating the rental unit.
 
36.  Subsection 20(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) states:
 
A landlord is responsible for
providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in it, in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with
health, safety, housing and maintenance standards
 
37.  In Onyskiw v.
CJM Property Management Ltd. the Ontario
Court of Appeal
rejected a long-standing
presumption that a Landlord may be deemed immediately in breach of subsection
29(1) of the Act once a defect arises:
 
If the legislature intended an
automatic breach of the landlord’s duty to maintain and repair as soon as a service was interrupted, there
would be no need for the Board
to make a determination as to whether
the landlord had breached its
obligation. The legislation would instead simply provide that where a service
has been interrupted the landlord is in breach of its duty to maintain and
repair and provide that the Board “may” award a remedy under s. 30(1) which authorizes a range of remedies including an abatement of rent.
 
Applying general
principles of statutory
interpretation, I would reject the
tenants’ submission that, when the RTA is properly
interpreted, a landlord is automatically in breach of its
obligation to repair and maintain under s. 29(1) as soon as an interruption in
service occurs.




 
 
38.  The Court in Onyskiw also referenced the
earlier leading case on this issue, Pajelle Investments Ltd. v.
Herbold, which, in light of the evolution in the law in the decades since that case was decided, also stands for the principle that a contextual approach is necessary
when considering whether the Landlord responded appropriately to a maintenance
defect.
 
39.  This contextual approach
is also congruent
with Interpretation Guideline
5, which states as follows:
 
If a landlord has done little
maintenance for an extended period, and a serious condition results
that takes some time to rectify, the Landlord should be responsible for the Tenants’ loss of use
of their unit or the common facilities during the
repairs. However, if the Landlord has a reasonable program of
maintenance, including preventative maintenance, and is acting responsibly to rectify a problem
that requires extensive repairs, an abatement of rent should not be ordered.
 
40.  The Act and the caselaw in this area indicates
that if the Landlord responded to the disrepair in a timely
and effective manner,
then no monetary
remedy will normally
flow.
 
41.  The uneven and/or hazardous walkway
was a serious safety issue,
particularly given the Tenant’s mobility issues. Maintenance Standards set out in Ontario
Regulation 517/06, section 26 states:
 
Exterior common areas shall
be maintained in a condition
suitable for their intended
use and free of hazards, and, for these purposes, the following shall be
removed:
…
4. Structures that create
an unsafe condition.
 
42.  Further, as set out in Ontario Regulation 517/06,
section 29, the front entrance door
“shall be equipped so that it can be secured
from the inside”.
The evidence was the front door failed to remain secured
particularly during inclement weather.
 
43.  Finally, the electrical issues within the rental unit
contravened section 14 of Ontario Regulation 517/06 which states: “the wiring
and receptacles necessary to provide electrical power shall be maintained free of conditions dangerous to persons
or property”.
 
44.  Based upon the uncontested evidence and submissions of
the Tenants, the Board finds that the Landlord failed to provide and maintain
the rental unit in a good state of repair. While the Landlord did investigate some issues, the walkway remained
a serious hazard, the electrical issues were not
repaired, and the front door was not repaired.
The deck was ultimately repaired and the evidence regarding the window
was that the Tenants were concerned that it would not be a form of egress in
the event of an emergency.
 
45.  I therefore find that the Landlord breached
her obligations under
section 20 of the
Act. As the Landlord’s conduct
caused some disruption to the Tenants’ ability to normally reside in the rental
unit with respect to the walkway, electrical issues and the front door, I find
that they are entitled to a rent abatement.




 
 
 
46.  Abatement of rent is the most common remedy awarded
to tenants in these situations. It is intended to reflect the idea that if a tenant is paying
rent for a bundle of goods and services and not receiving everything being paid
for, then the tenant is entitled to abatement of the rent proportional to the
difference between what is being paid for and what is being received.
 
47.  A 100% rent abatement is usually awarded
where the rental
unit is uninhabitable and that
is not the case here. Based on the nature and duration
of the problems and the impact on the Tenants, I find that the Tenants
are entitled to a lump sum rent abatement of
$1,000.00 for the Landlord's failure to reasonably respond to the issues
claimed in the Tenants’ T6 application.
 
48.  The Tenants failed
to provide any evidence to substantiate their claim for reimbursement
of any repairs, replacement and other work because the Landlord did not
maintain the rental unit, therefore, this part of the application will not be
considered.
 
49.  As the Tenants
are no longer in possession of the rental unit, an order for repairs
is not necessary.
 
50.  This Order contains
all of the reasons in this matter and no further reasons
will be issued.
 
 
It is
ordered that:
 
Regarding the T2 application:
 
1.    
Regarding the T2 application (TET-12065-20) , the Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants
a rent abatement of $1,000.00.
 
2.     Regarding the T6 application (TET-12066-20), the Landlord shall pay to the Tenants
$1,000.00 as a rent abatement.
 
3.     The total amount
the Landlord shall pay the Tenants
is $2,000.00. The Landlord shall pay
the Tenants the full amount owing by February 19, 2022.
 
4.    
If the Landlord does not pay the Tenants
the full amount
owing by February 19, 2022, the Tenant will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from February 20, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.




 
 
 
5.    
The Tenants have the right, at any time, to collect the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
 
 
January 19, 2022 Date Issued
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

