Metadata:
Date:	2020-02-18
File number:	
TET-99341-19
	TET-99341-19
Citation:	TET-99341-19 (Re), 2020 CanLII 61268 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/j9dz9>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/j9dz9
Content:


Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: TET-99341-19
 











 
 
 

D. I. (the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining
that B. Smith (the 'Landlord') or the Landlord's
agent harassed,
obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the Tenant, entered the
rental unit illegally, substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or by a member of the
Tenant's household and withheld or deliberately interfered with the reasonable
supply of a vital service, care service, or food that the Landlord is obligated
to supply under the tenancy agreement.
 
This application was heard in Peterborough
on August 15, 2019 and January 30, 2020.
 
The Tenant’s representative,
Glenna Grant, the Tenant’s spouse, Susan Irwin (the ‘Tenant’s Spouse’), and the
Landlord attended the hearing. 
 
Determinations:
INTRODUCTION
1.     
This application is about a rural
property that used to be owned by the Tenant. He has lived there for 78 years,
virtually his whole life. The property includes a house, workshop and lands.
The house has an internal “in-law suite”.
2.     
At some point in time the
Tenant sold the property to the Landlord’s parents and entered into a tenancy
agreement permitting him to continue living in the house. The agreement
included a process whereby the Landlord’s parents slowly took over the use of
the agricultural lands. 
3.     
The Landlord’s father passed
away in December of 2016 and the Tenant then dealt with the surviving spouse. On
May 22, 2018 the Tenant and the Tenant’s Spouse received an e-mail informing
them that effective June 1, 2018 the current Landlord and his spouse were
purchasing the half-share in the property owned by the estate. I believe this
means the Landlord and his spouse owned a partial interest in the property
effective December of 2016 and on June 1, 2018 became the sole owners. 
4.     
The substance of the
Tenant’s application is about a series of incidents that occurred after the
current Landlord acquired the property. 
PROCEDURAL
ISSUES
5.     
The application is amended
to reflect the fact that the Tenant’s Spouse is not a party to the tenancy
agreement. She is an occupant under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the ‘Act’). But she also holds power of attorney for property for the Tenant
so she is entitled to act on his behalf and step into his shoes for the purpose
of this hearing. 
6.     
A number of procedural
issues arose during the course of the hearing. 
7.     
The Landlord says he has an
acquired brain injury. But he also says that he is able to represent himself at
proceedings before the Board. 
8.     
At the hearing held on
August 15, 2019, the Landlord requested an adjournment. He wanted the hearing
postponed until after the Tenant and the Tenant’s Spouse moved out. He could
not articulate why such an adjournment was necessary and the application had
already been adjourned once. It was before the Board initially on May 23, 2019
and was adjourned at that time for scheduling overflow.
9.     
Given the Landlord’s
inability to articulate why he needed an adjournment, I suggested to the
Landlord that if his intention was to engage representation to help him, I was
willing to consider the adjournment request. He insisted he did not need
assistance and was not willing to retain counsel. 
10.  
As a result, the adjournment
request was denied. 
11.  
In the end result, the
Landlord actually got the adjournment he requested in that I did not complete
the hearing of the evidence on August 15, 2019. Although I was part way through
his oral testimony, I informed the parties that upon the resumption of the
hearing the Landlord would be permitted to start over from the beginning and
proceed without interruption as a form of accommodation. 
12.  
It appears from the Board’s
records that after the hearing on August 15, 2019 the Landlord wrote to the
Board requesting a copy of the audio hearing recording from August 15, 2019.
Unfortunately, he did not use the form the Board requires for such requests,
nor did he pay the fee, so it appears from the record that the Board did not
respond.  I was unaware of the Landlord’s e-mails until after the hearing held
on January 30, 2020. The Landlord never mentioned the request to me. 
13.  
 At the hearing held on
January 30, 2020, the Landlord was again unrepresented and again asked for
adjournment. His stated reasons for adjournment were connected to his belief
that the hearing could not proceed because the Landlord says the Tenant owes
him money. 
14.  
I repeatedly attempted to
explain to the Landlord that without an application filed by the Landlord for
non-payment of rent, the Board has no jurisdiction to deal with that issue. And
as the Tenant has now vacated the rental unit, any claim against the Tenant
must be commenced in Small Claims Court. 
15.  
The Landlord simply refused
to accept this information and repeatedly claimed the Board could not proceed.
I informed him that he had no choice but to accept the Board’s ruling with
respect to its lack of jurisdiction over the rent arrears issue and he
threatened to walk out of the hearing. I informed him that if he did so, the
Board might proceed in his absence. The Landlord then walked out. 
16.  
Given the Landlord’s
behaviour the Board was left with no choice but to proceed without him. If he
is unwilling to engage legal assistance to help him and unwilling to follow the
Board’s directions and rulings, there is no accommodation the Board can offer
that would ensure the Landlord will participate in the hearing process. He
simply refuses to co-operate.
17.  
As the Landlord’s oral
testimony was incomplete at the end of the hearing held on August 15, 2019, the
Tenant was denied the right of cross-examination. So the Landlord’s oral
testimony will not be considered. However, his documentary evidence is part of
the record and will be considered. It is a letter from the Tenant and the
Tenant’s Spouse and they have no objection to it being part of the evidentiary
record. 
THE
TENANT’S APPLICATION
18.  
The allegations in the
Tenant’s application are about: the furnace installation; remarks made by the
Landlord about the community and the rent charged; demands the Tenant sign a
new lease; the refusal of rent; demands the Tenant’s Spouse move out; problems
related to the water supply caused by a sheep farmer; and disturbances caused
to the occupants of the in-law suite. 
The
Furnace Installation
19.  
On September 25, 2018, the
Tenant received a phone call from the Landlord saying furnace installers were
coming into the rental unit the next morning to install a new furnace. No
written notice was given in accordance with s. 27 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).
20.  
This announcement was
problematic for the Tenant because the furnace installation included running
vents or ductwork up to the second floor on the east side of the house. And
that involved moving furniture. The Landlord knew this as he had spoken to the
Tenant about it before. The Tenant and the Tenant’s Spouse had asked for a
week’s notice. 
21.  
It was also problematic
because there were tenants in the in-law suite who needed 24 hour’s notice as
well. 
22.  
So the Tenant and the
Tenant’s Spouse made phone calls and it was agreed that the furnace installers
would attend on September 26, 2018 as planned but only to do the work required
in the basement. They would return on September 28, 2018 to do the work on the
upper levels. 
23.  
On September 26, 2018 the
Tenant’s Spouse walked into the house and discovered workers on a ladder in the
living room on the main floor. They were tearing down a part of the ceiling to
install the ductwork and debris was falling on top of a bookcase containing glassware
and the Tenant’s medical supplies. 
24.  
She stopped them and started
trying to move furniture around. 
25.  
Her son was staying upstairs
where a queen-sized bed and a 55 inch TV with a glass stand had to be moved as
well. She was not physically able to move it and the Tenant was recovering from
surgery, so they had no choice but to call her son and ask him to leave work to
come home and move furniture, which he did. 
26.  
According to the Tenant’s
Spouse some minor items went missing from the basement at this time. 
27.  
On December 12, 2018, the
Tenant received written notice of entry for “Monday morning until afternoon”. 
28.  
The evidence is insufficient
to establish this sequence of events is a breach of the privacy provisions of
the Act contained in sections 25 to 27, but I am satisfied that on September
26, 2018 the Landlord breached section 22 of the Act. I say this for the
following reasons.
29.  
There is no question that
having a phone conversation to tell a tenant that furnace installers are coming
the next day is not notice of entry in compliance with the Act. 
30.  
However, s. 26(1)(b) says it
is not a breach of the Act if the Tenant consents to the entry at the time the
entry occurs. As the Tenant’s Spouse was not present when the furnace
installers arrived and the Tenant did not testify, I do not know if the Tenant many
any effort to refuse the entry in question. So the evidence is insufficient to establish
a breach of s. 25 with respect to the furnace installation on September 26,
2018.
31.  
I agree with the Tenant that
the notice of entry served on December 12, 2018 also does not meet the
requirements for notice under section 27 in that it does not specify a date of
entry or a comprehensible time of entry. 
32.  
A limited range of hours may
be acceptable for entry in some circumstances, but the particulars on a notice
of entry must be sufficient to inform the tenant when they can expect someone
in their home. For example, if the notice had said the technician will arrive
between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m. and be there for two hours that would be
sufficiently specific for the tenant to know what to expect. 
33.  
But the problem with the
Tenant’s complaint with respect to the notice of entry served on December 12,
2018 is that no evidence was led as to whether or not the entry actually
occurred. So although I agree the notice was improper, I cannot conclude there
was an illegal entry. 
34.  
But section 22 says:
A landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s
occupancy of a rental unit and before the day on which an order evicting the
tenant is executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all usual
purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.  
35.  
The Landlord is responsible
for the behaviour of the furnace installers on September 26, 2018, because they
were there at his request and direction. They were acting with his authorization.

36.  
The Tenant’s Spouse says she
and the Tenant were very upset at this sequence of events because they had
talked to the Landlord and agreed that more notice to move the furniture was
required and that agreement was not honoured. The average, reasonable tenant
would feel the same way.
37.  
So I am satisfied that the
unexpected upheaval that occurred on September 26, 2018 substantially
interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the Tenant and his household. 
38.  
The issue of remedy is
discussed below. 
Remarks
About Low Rent
39.  
The Tenant’s Spouse says
that on multiple occasions the Landlord has stated to the Tenant or a member of
his household that people in the community keep asking why he charges such low
rent. For example, this type of remark was made on September 20 and September
27, 2018. 
40.  
On September 27, 2018 the
son of the Tenant’s Spouse confronted the Landlord in response to a remark like
this and asked who in the community was talking about the Tenant’s rent being
low. It is not a topic the Tenant or the Tenant’s Spouse discuss publicly. At
that point the Landlord indicated no one in the community was talking about the
amount of rent charged; it was simply something he discusses with his spouse. 
41.  
The Tenant’s Spouse says she
and the Tenant found these kinds of remarks belittling. 
42.  
I can understand why the
Tenant and the Tenant’s Spouse felt these remarks were demeaning. Most people
would find this kind of joking to be rude and unprofessional. But the issue
before the Board is not whether the Landlord was rude and unprofessional, it is
whether or not the remarks constitute a breach of ss. 22 or 23 of the Act. 
43.  
In this instance, I am not
satisfied that the Landlord breached the Act by making these remarks. The
evidence indicates they were private remarks. The amount of rent the Tenants
were paying was not the subject of gossip in the community. There is also no
evidence to suggest that after the Landlord was confronted about making these
kinds of remarks he continued to make them. 
44.  
So although I accept the
remarks caused the Tenant and his household some upset, I am not satisfied that
the behaviour rises to the threshold of “substantial” interference in s. 22.
And as the behaviour appears to have stopped after the Landlord was confronted
about it, I am not satisfied it constitutes behaviour the Landlord knew or
ought to have known would be most unwelcome to the Tenant and a breach of s.
23.
The
Lease, the Rent, and Demands the Tenant’s Spouse Move Out
45.  
On or about September 18,
2018 the Tenant’s spouse attempted to pay the Landlord the annual discounted rent
of $10,000.00. 
46.  
According to the Tenant’s Spouse
the annual rent was $12,000.00 but the Tenant was entitled to a discount of
$2,000.00 annually if the rent was paid in advance of the due date of October
1. 
47.  
Initially the Landlord
seemed pleased to receive the Tenant’s cheque but at some point thereafter he
returned the payment and said he would not accept it until the Tenant had
signed a new lease. He also wanted payment in cash.
48.  
On September 27, 2018, the
Landlord presented the Tenant with a one-page handwritten document. It is
essentially a proposal for terms for a life lease. It says the Landlord only
wants to deal with the Tenant, the Tenant is to continue to be responsible for
maintenance and repairs, the Tenant can terminate on 30 days’ notice, and after
the Tenant’s death the remaining occupants can continue to reside in the rental
unit until the later of 60 days after the death or the end of the annual period
of the tenancy.
49.  
The Tenant and the Tenant’s
Spouse understood these terms to mean that the Landlord did not want to deal
with the Tenant’s Spouse, and if and when the Tenant passed away, she would be
put out of her home. 
50.  
The Tenant’s Spouse says
that also on September 27, 2018 the Landlord pointed at the Tenant’s Spouse and
said she could move out but the Tenant could stay. This kind of remark was made
more than once.
51.  
I would observe at this
point that none of the proposed terms in the handwritten document are actually
legally enforceable. For example:
•        
As the Tenant’s spouse holds
power of attorney for property for her spouse, the Landlord has no right at all
to refuse to deal with her. 
•        
Under s. 20(1) of the Act a
landlord is responsible for maintenance and repairs. That obligation cannot be
shifted by lease terms to a tenant. (See sections 3 and 4 of the Act.)
•        
A tenancy like this one
cannot be terminated on 30 days’ notice. Pursuant to s. 44(3), at least 60 days’
notice must be given and the date of termination must be the last day of the
yearly period. 
•        
After a tenant’s death any
surviving spouse living in the rental unit automatically becomes the tenant
provided he or she does not voluntarily vacate within 30 days of the death. (See
s. 3(1) of Ontario Regulation 516/06.) 
•        
Finally, after April of 2018
it became mandatory for all landlords to use the government’s standard lease
form for all written tenancy agreements.   
52.  
The Tenant’s Spouse says the
Landlord kept pressuring the Tenant to sign this handwritten document but the
Tenant was reluctant to do so. He wanted advice and he kept telling the
Landlord that the Landlord could not force a new lease on the Tenant as he
already had one. But the Landlord kept insisting and refusing to accept the
rent until the Tenant acquiesced to the Landlord’s demands.
53.  
The Tenant and the Tenant’s
Spouse made a second attempt to pay the rent in advance of the due date. On or
about September 29, 2018 they sent a cheque by express post with receipt
signature required. The Landlord refused to pick it up from the post office and
eventually it was returned to the Tenant and the Tenant’s Spouse. 
54.  
On October 4, 2018 the
Landlord came to the door of the rental unit and told the Tenant and the
Tenant’s Spouse that he did not need or want the rent and would have them
evicted. He threatened to bring over a bull dozer and demolish the house. 
55.  
The Tenant’s Spouse says
that in addition to wanting the Tenant to sign a new lease, the Landlord refused
the Tenant’s cheque because he wanted payment to be in cash. It appears the
Landlord believed (erroneously) that the Tenant had always paid the Landlord’s
father in cash so he wanted cash as well. The Tenant told the Landlord he was
willing to pay in cash in exchange for a receipt but the Landlord refused to commit
to providing a receipt. 
56.  
The Tenant’s Spouse says
that by that point she would get physically ill just seeing a pickup truck that
looked like the Landlord’s. 
57.  
The Tenant and the Tenant’s
Spouse told the Landlord that they would not let him pressure them, they were
going to seek legal advice and go to the Board. And on October 6, 2018 they
served notice to terminate on the Landlord. According to the Tenant’s spouse,
they could not stand the harassment anymore. 
58.  
On or about October 7, 2018
the Tenant made a third attempt to pay the rent. The Tenant’s Spouse and one of
her sons went to the Landlord’s home and placed cheques in his mail box. They
were never cashed. Correspondence delivered with the cheques indicates the
Tenant planned to vacate March 31, 2019 and would pay $1,000.00 monthly until
then. 
59.  
The Tenant did in fact move
out, but not until September 30, 2019 which was the end of a period of the
tenancy. 
60.  
After October 7, 2018 the
Tenant’s spouse became concerned because the cheques were not being cashed. Sometime
in December of 2018, that concern prompted her to put a stop payment on them. 
61.  
On or about December 11,
2018 the Landlord delivered a letter to the rental unit. It states in part the
Landlord’s understanding that rent was payable in cash. The Tenant and the
Tenant’s spouse showed the Landlord a copy of an old cancelled cheque to prove
payment had been made by cheque in the past. 
62.  
On December 12, 2018, the
Landlord came to the property and told the Tenant he wanted the Tenant’s Spouse
evicted. The Tenant subsequently reported this to the Tenant’s Spouse. 
63.  
In December of 2018 the
Landlord also presented the Tenant and the Tenant’s Spouse with a bill for rent
for the period October 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019. The bill indicates the
Landlord was demanding monthly rent calculated as one-twelfth of $10,000.00. It
also indicates a rent increase was scheduled to take effect January 1, 2019 in
the guideline amount of 1.8% even though a Notice of Rent Increase was not
served on the Tenant.  
64.  
On May 24, 2019, following
proceedings at the Board, the Tenant tried again and tendered another cheque to
the Landlord for a yearly period. This time it was in the amount of $12,000.00.
The Landlord did not cash that cheque either. 
65.  
This sequence of events
concerning refusal to accept payment of rent, demands the Tenant sign a new
lease, the threat to bulldoze the house and evict the Tenant, and remarks about
the Tenant’s Spouse moving out without the Tenant, constitute a breach of
section 23 of the Act. The reasonable landlord knows or ought to know that this
kind of behaviour would be most unwelcome to the average reasonable tenant. 
66.  
Again remedy is
discussed below. 
The
Water Supply Issue
67.  
In the spring of 2017, the
Tenant was advised that the barn was going to be rented out to a sheep farmer
for housing his sheep. 
68.  
At the time this occurred the
Tenant warned the Landlord and the farmer there would be water issues. And
there were. Twice a day there would be no water for maybe 15 to 20 minutes. Sometimes
water loss continued for up to an hour. This meant problems arose using the
toilet, cooking, running the dishwasher or the washing machine. 
69.  
The Tenant first complained
about this prior to the final purchase of the farm by the Landlord and his
spouse. 
70.  
In June of 2018 the son of
the Tenant’s Spouse was in the shower when the water supply stopped. The
Tenant’s spouse sent a complaint to the Landlord and the Landlord started
talking about installing another or additional well and some drilling was done.
But the Landlord seemed to think he could demand additional monies from the
Tenant in exchange for resolving the problem by adding a new well. The problem
was not resolved. 
71.  
Then on February 14, 2019
the Tenant’s Spouse sent another letter complaining about the problems caused
by the interruption of the water supply. As far as she is aware nothing was
done at that time. 
72.  
Then in May of 2019 the
Tenant’s Spouse spoke directly to the sheep farmer about the problem. At that
point something must have been done because the problem with the water supply
finally stopped. She is unaware of how the problem was resolved. 
73.  
Because the evidence is
insufficient to establish how the issue was resolved, I am not prepared to make
a finding that the Landlord deliberately interfered with or withheld a vital
service. That being said, having the water supply interrupted twice a day seven
days a week is clearly a substantial interference with reasonable enjoyment and
a breach of s. 22 of the Act. 
74.  
Again, remedy is discussed below.

Miscellaneous
75.  
Some evidence was led with
respect to the occupants of the in-law suite. At some point in time the Tenant
rented the in-law suite to the son of the Tenant’s Spouse and his spouse. 
76.  
On September 27, 2018 the occupants
of the in-law suite submitted a letter of complaint to the Tenant and the
Tenant’s spouse complaining about the behaviour of the Landlord on his visits
to the property. He was loud and attended the property frequently and without
notice. 
77.  
But the Tenant and the Tenant’s
spouse did not report these complaints to the Landlord. 
78.  
Subsequently, the son and
spouse in question moved out and the in-law suite was rented out to another son
of the Tenant’s Spouse. 
79.  
This evidence is
insufficient to make out a breach of the Act. The Landlord was unaware of the
complaints so it cannot be said he knew or ought to have known his behaviour
was unwelcome. The son and spouse in question did not testify so it is unclear
as to the impact on them of the behaviour complained of and unclear whether or
not it was the reason they decided to move out. 
80.  
As a result, I am not
prepared to find the behaviour in question constitutes substantial interference
with reasonable enjoyment or harassment. 


 
Remedy
81.  
The application as filed
seeks an abatement of the rent, a cease and desist order, and an administrative
fine. At the hearing the request for remedies was narrowed to abatement of the
rent and costs.
82.  
Abatement is a contractual
remedy designed to address the idea that a tenant is paying for a bundle of
goods and services and where the tenant is not receiving those goods and
services rent should be abated proportional to the difference between what is
being paid for and what is being received. 
83.  
The Tenant is entitled to
abatement of the rent for the upheaval caused by the furnace installation of September
26, 2018. That upheaval was not reasonable and could have been avoided. That
being said, the disruption appears to have been limited to a single day. As the
annual discounted rent is $10,000.00, a 100% abatement for that one day is only
equal to $10,000.00 divided by 365 days or $27.40. That does not seem
particularly reasonable in terms of a remedy but the Tenant did not seek
damages arising from the breach so an order shall issue for $27.40.
84.  
With respect to the sequence
of events concerning the Landlord’s demands that the Tenant sign a new lease,
his refusals to accept payment, his threats to evict the Tenant and bulldoze
the house, and his remarks about wanting the Tenant’s Spouse to move out, the
Tenant is entitled to additional abatement of the rent. The behaviour can only
be described as bullying. The Tenant and his household quite rightly felt
threatened and intimidated and were driven to move out because of it. 
85.  
The evidence suggests this
behaviour occurred on and off over several days for the period commencing
September 18, 2018 and seems to have waned by December of 2018. So I believe
the Tenant is entitled to abatement for a three month period between September
and December of 2018. Given all of the evidence before the Board and my
knowledge of like similar cases, it seems to me a reasonable abatement of the
rent would be about 25% of the rent charged or $625.00. That reflects the
number of times the behaviour occurred, the egregiousness of the conduct in
question, and some of the impact it had on the Tenant’s household. 
86.  
With respect to the problem
with the water supply, the starting period for abatement of the rent is March 5,
2018 because of the one year imitation period found in s. 29(2). As the problem
was resolved sometime in May of 2019 I am satisfied the Tenant is entitled to
abatement for approximately a fourteen month period. Given that the disruption
in the water supply happened twice a day every day for the entire period, the timing
and length of the disruptions was unpredictable but always during waking hours
when cleaning and cooking could be anticipated, and given my knowledge of like
similar cases before the Board, it seems to me that a reasonable abatement of
the rent would be about 10% of the rent charged or $1,170.00. 
87.  
The total of the abatements
awarded above is $1,822.40
88.  
The Tenant incurred costs of
$45.00 for filing the application and is entitled to reimbursement of those
costs.
89.  
The Tenant also seeks costs
of the adjournment of August 15, 2019. I do not believe such costs are
warranted. The adjournment was necessary because the Board ran out of time. In
part that was due to the difficulties the Landlord encountered in participating
in the hearing process which I believe are at least partially related to his
disability. Although I agree the Landlord’s behaviour on January 30, 2020 in walking
out of the hearing room is behaviour that might draw an award of costs, those
costs would logically flow to the Board and not the Tenant. And again, I
believe the Landlord’s behaviour on January 30, 2020 is attributable at least
in part to his disability. 
90.  
So I do not believe costs
for the adjournment should be ordered. 
91.  
This order contains all of
the reasons for the decision within it. No further reasons shall be issued.
It is ordered that:
1.     
The Landlord shall pay to
the Tenant abatements of the rental totalling $1,822.40.
2.     
The Landlord shall also pay
to the Tenant $45.00 for the cost of filing the application.
3.     
The total amount the
Landlord owes is $1,867.40.
4.     
The Landlord shall pay the Tenant
the full amount owing by February 29, 2020.
5.     
If the Landlord does not pay
the Tenant the full amount owing by February 29, 2020, the Tenant will owe
interest. This will be simple interest calculated from March 1, 2020 at 3.00%
annually on the balance outstanding. 
 

February 18, 2020                                                           _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Ruth
Carey
                                                                                                                           Vice
Chair, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
 

