Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-09
File number:	
TET-14923-21

Citation:	Palmer v Pokhrel, 2022 CanLII 87346 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2tn>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 30
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TET-14923-21
TET-14928-21
 



In the matter of:


BASEMENT, 49 MEDINA
CRESCENT SCARBOROUGH ON M1K4B9


 




Between:


Curtis Palmer
  Sara Kiltz


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Shyam Pokhrel


Landlord



 
 
 
Curtis Palmer and Sara Kiltz (the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that Shyam Pokhrel (the 'Landlord') failed to meet
the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 (the 'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety, housing or
maintenance standards (T6 Application, TET-14923-21).
 
AND
 
The Tenants applied for an order
determining that the Landlord OR the Landlord's superintendent OR the Landlord's agent} harassed, obstructed,
coerced, threatened or interfered with them, entered the rental unit illegally,
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their household, withheld
or deliberately interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital service, care
service, or food that the Landlord is obligated to supply under the tenancy
agreement (T2 Application, TET-14928-21).
 
These applications were heard via videoconference on December 14, 2021 at 9:26 A.M.
 
The Tenants and the Landlord, the Landlord's Legal Representative, Ms. Maria Sturino, attended the hearing. The
Landlord’s daughter, Sujata Pokhrel, was also in attendance to assist with translation.
 
The Tenant’s declined an opportunity to consult
with Duty Counsel prior to the hearing
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
Ms. Sara Kiltz vacated
the rental unit as
of November 1, 2021, and Mr.
Curtis Palmer is still in possession of the rental unit.
 
The applications were originally filed on February
1, 2021 and amended on April 22, 2021.




T6 Application- Tenants’
evidence and submissions
 
2.    
The Tenants testified about the following
incidents:
 
a)    
July 18, 2021, the Tenant’s one and half year-old son cut his forehead on the
kitchen countertop. No medical evidence was submitted.
b)    
July 12, 2021, the Tenant’s
son also cut his foot on a broken tile near the laundry room. No medical evidence was
submitted.
c)     
July 25, 2021, the Tenants
verbally advised the Landlord that
the broken tile near the laundry room needed repair, the ceiling above the
kitchen required repair and the mouse infestation was ongoing and needed
to be addressed, as they could not use their kitchen cabinetry for
food storage. The Tenants also testified that they informed the Landlord about
the pest infestation dated in December 2020, and again in early 2021.
d)    
September 21, 2021, the Landlord was advised the kitchen countertop was also broken and required repair or replacement.
3.    
The Tenants testified that mice were
present in the kitchen cupboards in February and March of 2020 and entering in from holes
under the kitchen
sink and laundry area. The Tenants testified two pest control
treatments were conducted on April 8, 2020 and December 21, 2020 but could not
recall any other visits.
 
4.    
The Tenants also testified that there were some occasions when they did not permit
pest control treatments due to concerns about COVID 19 and protocols being
followed by the service technicians and the Landlord. No dates related to this were submitted during
their testimony.
 
5.    
The Tenants further testified
that they did not have any specific dates or times
of seeing mice or any other
pests in the rental unit, but firmly believed the infestation problem existed.
 
T6 Application- Landlord’s evidence and submissions
 
6.    
The Landlord's Legal Representative initially submitted that the Tenant’s
testimony about dates and
times in their oral testimony, related to dates in the amended T6 and were not
properly submitted in the original application. The Landlord’s Legal
Representative also submitted the dates of July 12, 18, and 25, 202, and
September 21, 2021 were also part of the amended application in an effort to
add further allegations of maintenance related concerns. I accepted these
submissions.
 
7.    
The Landlord's Legal Representative submitted evidence addressing pest control service on the following dates:
 
a)    
February 21, 2020, Rentokil
pest control service
receipt.
b)    
April 4, 2020, Rentokil
pest control service
receipt.




c)     
April 8, 2020, Rentokil
pest control service
receipt.
d)    
December 21, 2020, Rentokil
pest control service.
e)    
March 5, 2021, Rentokil
inspection update and service receipt.
 
8.    
The Landlord's Legal Representative submitted that during
these inspections and service
bait and traps were placed inside and outside the rental unit, when the service
provider was permitted access by the Tenants. The service reports commonly
identified exposed foods in cupboards, and a lack of general cleanliness, but
that there was no evidence of mouse infestation, or other pests inside the
rental unit. The Landlord's Legal Representative did identify the presence of
bait feedings occurring outside on the main level, but again claimed there was
no evidence of an infestation in the rental unit.
 
9.    
The Landlord's Legal Representative submitted the Landlord
was prepared to inspect the rental unit to assess what was needed
to be done in the rental unit including the following:
 
a)     Repair of holes in the wall under the kitchen
sink.
b)    
Repair or replacement of drywall and a broken tile in front of the laundry room.
c)     
Repair of the ceiling
above the kitchen area.
d)    
Repair or replacement of the kitchen
countertop.
e)    
The additional pest control
service visits that may
be required.
 
 
T6 Analysis
 
10. 
The Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the “Act”) states:
 
20 (1) A landlord
is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in
it, in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with
health, safety, housing and maintenance standards.
 
11. 
In Onyskiw v. CJM Property Management, 2016 ONCA 477 (CanLII), the Court of Appeal
determined that a contextual approach should be adopted when considering a
landlord’s potential breach of subsection 20(1) of the Act and a breach will
not be found if the landlord’s response to a maintenance issue was reasonable
in the circumstances.
 
12. 
Based on the submissions and
testimony of all parties, and on the balance of probabilities, I find the
Landlord was generally acting responsibly in providing and maintaining the
residential complex. Regarding pest control, the Landlord had the unit professionally
treated on a number of occasions, as set out in paragraph 9 above. Further, multiple
reports from pest control company and the additional statement from the technician
suggest there was no evidence of an ongoing serious infestation.
 
13. 
The Landlord has
indicated a willingness to address
the maintenance issues listed in paragraph 11, and I will order the inspection, repair
or replacement of each identified
item.




14. 
The Tenants are seeking
a 3-month full abatement of rent in the amount
of $5300.00. I note this amount was not in the original
T6 Application, which
did not have any remedy request. Additionally, the Tenants
are requesting the Board require the Landlord to conduct an inspection and
perform specified repairs.
 
15. 
As noted, the Landlord is fully
prepared to attend to any outstanding repairs and maintenance issues following
an inspection, and prepared to follow any determinations and orders.
I also find that the tensions between
the parties, including the Tenants’ lack of
cooperation at certain times
related to pest control
services, restricted the Landlord’s ability to inspect the unit
and complete any repair work that may be required. I find, therefore, that an abatement of rent is not
an appropriate remedy to this T6 application.
T2 Application-Tenants’ evidence
and submissions
 
16. 
The Tenants testified that as a
background, the Landlord has limited conversational English and communication
abilities, which resulted in numerous challenges. The Tenants also testified that attempts were made by the Landlord
to establish a residential
tenancy agreement in December 2019, but that a signed lease agreement did not
exist.
 
17. 
The rental unit was approximately
1700 sq. feet and consists of a side door entrance, leading to the basement
rental unit, accessible by approximately 10 steps
down. There is a common shared hallway, and the Landlord could access the
main level by going up a few steps from that same side door entrance. The
common area hallway contains 2 locked closet
storage doors belonging to the Landlord.
The only other common area was
the laundry room with a separate door, and the Landlord would use it only on
Sundays.
 
18. 
During cross examination, the
Landlord's Legal Representative was able to confirm the Landlord’s use of the laundry area was limited
to Sundays only,
between 8am and 5pm,
and the closet doors in the common area were locked and only accessible by the Landlord
 
19. 
The Tenants allege that beginning in December 2019 the
Landlord and his spouse made physical gestures of violence toward the female Tenant,
and stated the Tenants were guests in the home as opposed to Tenants. The Tenants
could not provide
any evidence or submissions
specific to this alleged incident, and the Landlord denied making such statements.
 
20. 
The Tenants testified, in January
2020, the Landlord would frequently come downstairs and complain about personal
items belonging to the Tenants, which he asserted were blocking access
near the stairwell and common hallway.
The female Tenant
also alleged she was targeted
by the Landlord when she was alone with her son in the rental unit.
 
21. 
The Tenants alleged that on
February 10, 2020, the Landlord confronted the female Tenant’s esthetician who attended on-site
to provide her services to the Tenant,
and, as a result, never returned. Additionally, the Tenants asserted the
Landlord would not permit the Tenants to acquire their own internet service
which they testified effected their ability to work-from-home, especially
during the pandemic.




 
22. 
The Tenants allege that on March
4, 2020, the Police were contacted by the Landlord and permitted access from
the side door into the lower common hallway area, and knocked on the Tenant’s
secure door, as the result of the Landlord’s allegation there were ongoing
arguments between the Tenants in their rental
unit. The female Tenant
felt this was an invasion of her safety and an illegal entry, and the
Police should not have been permitted into the home from the common side door
entrance.
 
23. 
Additionally, the Landlord would
frequently post notices of entry on the Tenant’s secure entrance door downstairs, as opposed to the side door entrance,
which was the Tenant’s
preferred location for any notices, and that during the Provincial Stay-at-Home
order the Landlord would not follow masking protocols.
 
24. 
During cross examination, the
Landlord's Legal Representative was able to clarify that although notices of
entry for maintenance and repairs were placed on the secure entrance door to the rental unit downstairs, at no time was there
entry into the rental unit without prior notice. This was
affirmed by the Tenants. In addition, through cross examination, it was
established that the alleged dates of illegal entry were dates where notice of entry
was provided. These
dates included, February
7, 18, 21, 2020 for repairs
and March 6, 7, and 8, 2020 for furnace, stove, mould, and exhaust repairs.
 
25. 
The Tenants also allege that from
the period of November 2019, to Jun 15, 2020 the rental unit was very cold, and the Tenants
had to purchase 2 space heaters valued at
$56.50 each and submitted
evidence of temperature readings on the following dates: December 7, 2020 (13 degrees), March 26 (5 degrees),
April 7 (13 degrees), April 20 (5
degrees), and April 29, 2021, (13 degrees).
 
26. 
The Tenants also allege that in
there were several attempts to evict the Tenants by the Landlord, he lied about
the Tenants smoking in the rental unit (#TEL-1102-20), and that the Landlord
displayed gender discrimination. While there were no specific dates or times submitted
to the Board, the female Tenant testified the Landlord “refused to speak to
women”, claiming they should “just do their housework”, and “women should have
no say”.
 
27. 
Additionally, the Tenants allege
that the Landlord
racially against the male Tenant,
but did not submit any dates
or times of any incidents. And finally, the Tenants allege the Landlord did not
co-sign an application from the female Tenant to receive ODSP payments.
 
T2 Application-Landlord’s evidence
and submissions
 
28. 
The Landlord testified that the
basement hallway was, in fact, a common area that he frequently used to access
his storage closets, and laundry area on Sundays. He further testified the secure door in the basement to the rental unit had a separate
lock, and there was a second locked door from within
the open kitchen area into the rental unit’s bedroom. The Landlord testified
the personal belongings of the Tenants were blocking the stairwell and access
to his storage closets. These items consisted of a playpen, bassinette, and
other personal items the Tenant indicated she intended to sell on-line.




 
29. 
The Landlord testified he attempted to convince the Tenants to agree to a formal lease,
but they refused to sign.
 
30. 
The Landlord denied verbally
abusing the esthetician in November of 2019, and in fact, he helped her use the side door
entrance after she first arrived at the front door of the home.
 
31. 
The Landlord further testified he always posted notices on the basement
rental unit door, because it was most visible there,
and it was part of the common hallway area.
 
32. 
The Landlord submitted his own evidence
respecting temperature readings
taken on the following dates:
February 16, 2020 (20 degrees @ 9:05 A.M.), March 25, 2020 (25
degrees @ 2:15 P.M.),
April 7, 2020 (23 degrees).
He also submitted
that on January
20, 2020, the Tenants had a basement kitchen window, along with 2 patio
windows open.
 
33. 
The Landlord also testified he had health
challenges and was very sensitive any smoke, and the
Tenant’s refused to stop smoking outside near his windows.
 
34. 
He also testified that he
provided internet service
to the Tenants and never
engaged in any threats with the
female Tenant.
 
35. 
He acknowledged that he called the
Police, early on March 3, 2020, because of his concern there was a domestic
violence incident and the Police attended the property on March 3, 2020 at 3:17
P.M. The Landlord allowed the Police into the side entrance and they came downstairs and remained in the common
hallway area, as they knocked
on the Tenant’s secure door.
 
36. 
Regarding the absence of dates and
times of the Landlord’s alleged conduct about smoking, gender and racial
discrimination, the Landlord's Legal Representative submitted that the Landlord could not
properly defend himself against these accusations, without proper dates and
times.
 
37. 
The Landlord's Legal Representative also submitted the ODSP document
referenced by the Tenants did
not include accurate rent information, as it stated that the rent was
$781.00, not $1300.00, and as it only included
the female Tenant’s
name and not both
Tenants.
 
T2 Analysis
 
38. 
The relevant sections of the
Act state:
 
21 (1) A
landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s
occupancy of a rental unit and
before the day on which
an order evicting the tenant is executed, withhold
the reasonable supply of any
vital service, care service
or food that it is the landlord’s




obligation to supply under the tenancy
agreement or deliberately interfere with the reasonable supply of any vital
service, care service or food.
 
22 A landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental
unit and before the day on which an order evicting the tenant is
executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all usual purposes by a
tenant or members of his or her household. .
 
23 A landlord shall not harass,
obstruct, coerce, threaten,
or interfere with a tenant.
 
39. 
Based on the evidence and
submissions from both parties, and on the balance of probabilities, I find the
Tenants have not established that the Landlord interfere with vital service, substantially interfere interference with the Tenants’
reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit or the residential complex; or harass, obstruct, coerce, threaten,
or interfered with the Tenants.
 
40. 
Although the Tenants had the opportunity to perfect the amended T6 and T2 applications
prior to the hearing, I find the their evidence on the issues raised in the T2 was inconsistent, lacking in accuracy
about dates and times, and vague in most instances, both in written submissions
and testimony at the hearing.
 
41. 
I find the inconsistencies and
absence of accurate information and evidence in the Tenants’ submission raise
doubt as to the validity of the T2 application. There is no evidence of substantial interference with the Tenants
and I find the Landlord reasonably treated the lower
level secured door as the rental unit’s interior entry point, which was also
made evident by the Police visit, when they remained outside of this entry door
during their investigation.
 
42. 
Additionally, the very serious
allegations of gender
and racial discrimination, were based primarily on hearsay evidence,
about conversations in a foreign
language, without dates, times
or locations, and with no substantive evidence suggesting that the Landlord was
either gender biased, or racially biased.
 
 
It is ordered
that:
 
1.    
The T2 application is
dismissed.
 
2.    
Regarding the T6 application, the Landlord shall
perform an inspection of the rental
unit by no later than February 15, 2022 to determine the repairs
required. All COVID 19 protocols must be followed.
 
3.    
On or before March
15, 2022, the Landlord shall also
 
a)     
repair any holes in the wall under the kitchen sink counter;




b)       
repair or replace drywall
and a broken tile in front of the laundry
room;
c)     
repair the ceiling above the kitchen
area; and
d)       
repair or replace the kitchen countertop.
 
4.    
The Landlord shall also pay for
the cost of pest control treatment by a licensed technician. A minimum of three inspections and service for mice and any other
pest infestation must be performed commencing in March 2022, at a
schedule to be determined by the technician.
 
5.    
If the Landlord fails
to perform any of
the worked ordered
in paragraphs 1-3, the
Tenant may proceed with the required work and the Tenant may recover any
out-pocket expenses by deducting up to $300.00 per month from the rent,
commencing April 1, 2022, until the balance
is zero. The Tenant must
provide the Landlord with a receipt
for all such expenses.
 
6.    
For the purposes of maintenance
and repair, and any other reason in accordance with the Act, the Landlord shall be permitted
to post all Notices of Entry
into the rental unit on the secure basement door, accessing
the rental unit.
 
7.    
The Landlord shall keep the common
area basement clean and properly maintained, effective the date of this
order.
 
8.    
The Landlord and Tenant
shall only communicate in writing, if there are any future issues
related to maintenance, or repair of the rental unit, or any other matter.
 
 
 
 
February 9, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Steven Mastoras
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

