Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-02
File number:	
TET-15836-21

Citation:	O’Shea v Skyline Living, 2022 CanLII 87347 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js2tp>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TET-15836-21
 
 



In the matter of:


102, 99 SIDNEY
STREET BELLEVILLE ON K8P4X1


 




Between:


Suzanne O’Shea


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Skyline Living


Landlord



 
 
 
 
Suzanne O’Shea (the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that Skyline Living (the 'Landlord') harassed, obstructed,
coerced, threatened or interfered with the Tenant.
 
This application was heard via video conference on January 25,
2022.
 
The Tenant, the Landlord’s legal representative, Gail Kukor Lang, and the Landlord’s witnesses, Nancy Hannah and Nicole
Peters, attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Issue
 
1.    
At the outset of the hearing, the
Landlord raised a preliminary objection regarding whether the Tenant’s application contains sufficient dates, times and details
to enable the Landlord to properly prepare a response. For the following
reasons, I agree with the Landlord’s objection.
 
2.    
The Tenant’s application is
unclear on its face. The application makes vague references to the Landlord serving
notices of termination and then says “please see attached files for
full list of dates and occurrences”. The Tenant failed to attach any document
to the application to outline specific dates, times or details of her
allegations.
 
3.    
Due to the lack of clarity
in the Tenant’s application, the Landlord says they are not able to discern the nature of the
Tenant’s allegations and they are unable to properly defend themselves against
those allegations. I agree with the Landlord’s assessment of the application.
 
4.    
In addition to missing and unclear
allegations, the Tenant’s application is also unclear with regards
to the remedies she is seeking. The Tenant is not requesting any monetary




File Number: TET-15836-21
 
remedy and instead is asking the
Board make an order that is outside the Board’s jurisdiction. For example, the
Tenant is requesting that the Board issue an order preventing the Tenant from paying the costs of utilities and pay only half of the monthly rent for the duration of the
tenancy. These are just two examples of the remedies the Tenant is requesting
that are outside the Board’s jurisdiction.
 
5.    
It is well settled
law that the parties are entitled to know the case they have to meet and they are entitled to know how they
ought to prepare an effective response. This means that, if an application is
confusing to the degree that a reasonable person could not understand the
precise allegations and prepare a response to those allegations, the
application must be dismissed.
 
6.    
In the case before me, I find that the Tenant’s application was so vague and
unclear that the Landlord
could not possibly know the case to be met before the Board and could not prepare an effective response. As the
Tenant’s application does not meet the requirements of the law, it must be
dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Tenant’s application is dismissed.
 
 
February 2, 2022 Date
Issued
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

