Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-09
File number:	
TET-98921-19

Citation:	TET-98921-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 97391 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jsjmk>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 29
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TET-98921-19
 
 
LL (the 'Tenant') applied in
this T1/T6 application for an order determining that JQ (the 'Landlord') charged
the Tenant illegal
charges, and that the Landlord failed to repair or maintain the
rental unit or residential complex, or did not comply with health, safety,
housing, or maintenance standards.
 
As background, this matter
already had a partial hearing
on September 10, 2019 before Member Irwin, which was adjourned
as it was not completed that day.
 
The returned hearing was on
February 10, 2020 but it was before Member Whittick because Member Irwin was no
longer with the Board. Since Member
Irwin had left no notes or orders with respect to the September 10, 2019
hearing, Member Whittick issued an Interim
Order dated March
25, 2020 ordering
a hearing de novo and imposing various conditions dealing with
amendments and disclosure requirements.
 
These applications were heard de novo by telephone/video conference on December 17, 2021. The Tenant attended along with her legal representative DR.
The Landlord did not attend but
was represented by her legal representative SK. The Landlord’s witness
HJZ attended but remained
in a breakout room as he was not called to testify during the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
T1 Application
 
1.                     
The Tenant asked to withdraw the
portion of the T1 claim alleging $4,000.00 was
charged illegally for a security/damage deposit. The Tenant
confirmed that




 
the Landlord had allowed
her to credit/apply $4,000.00 towards
rent in September 2019 before
the Tenant vacated.
 
2.                     
The parties agreed that the keys
had been returned by the Tenant to the Landlord’s legal representative’s office
on October 31, 2019. The portion of the
T1 claim alleging $200.00 remained outstanding for the key deposit was resolved
on consent by the Landlord’s legal representative agreeing to mail a cheque for
$200.00 to Ranger Paralegal Service in trust (to be delivered by December 23,
2021).
 
T6 Application
 
Request to Amend Remedies Moot
 
3.                     
As a preliminary issue the Tenant
wished to amend her T6 application. The
initial T6 Application was filed with the Board on January 29, 2019. On September 5, 2019 the Tenant’s legal
representative emailed the Board an Amended T6 Application. On December 10, 2021 the Tenant’s legal
representative emailed the Board and the other
side an Amended Amended T6 Application.
 
4.                     
All of the proposed amendments in either
the Amended T6 or the Amended Amended T6 were
to the remedies section of the application. There were no
proposed changes to page 3 of the T6 application: “Part 2: Reasons
for Filing This Application” or the additional typed details describing the reasons for the
claim.
 
5.                     
For the reasons below,
the T6 Application was dismissed; therefore the issue
of amending the Application to change the remedies was moot.
 
Lack of Details
in T6 Claims
 
6.                     
I raised the concern that the
details of the T6 application were lacking and did not set out the minimum
information required for either the Landlord/Respondent or the Board to
understand the claims being made. The
first deficiency was understanding what specific maintenance issues were being raised since they were not clearly written in the T6 application
(ie: they were not in a list format as requested on the form).
 
7.                     
By going through what had been
provided in Part 2 and the additional typed details, the Tenant’s Legal
Representative clarified that there were 5 maintenance issues: (1) heating/air conditioning; (2) servicing
water filtration system; (3)
natural gas fireplace; (4) garage opener; and (5) emergency generator.




 
8.                     
None of the 5 maintenance issues
contained sufficient details
to adequately set out or
explain the claim being made. For
example, none of the issues had a start date (except
the first issue:
heating/air conditioning problems
started at the beginning of the tenancy September 1,
2018). Also, none of the issues
clearly identified what attempts had been made to repair the problems. Further, none of the issues identified how the Landlord
had been notified
about each problem.
 
9.                     
I considered the case of Ball
v. Metro Capital Property [2002] O.J. No. 5931 (Divisional Court) (“Ball
v. Metro Capital”). The facts in Ball
v. Metro Capital were distinguishable in that the details were lacking in a Notice
of Termination in the landlord’s application. Notwithstanding that the present case is a tenant application instead of a landlord
application, the legal premise of requiring adequate particulars so that the opposing
side can understand and respond to the claims being made against them has
been long established.
 
10.                
The types of particulars expected
in notices and applications include dates, times, and a detailed description of
the alleged conduct or behaviour. This allows
the responding party to
know the case they have to meet and to prepare
their defence.
 
11.                
The Board’s tenant application
forms have been developed with written instructions to elicit the necessary
details required. For example the T6 form states at page 3: “Explaining your
Reason: What is the problem? If there is more
than one problem,
list each problem.
Give the date each problem
started. Has the problem
been repaired? If so, give the
date it was repaired and explain
who repaired it. Explain who or what may have caused the problem. How did you
inform the landlord about the problem?”
 
12.                
The Tenant described that her
evidence and disclosure for the hearing contained all the necessary details. She described how she had maintained
communication with the Landlord throughout their relationship so there should be no surprise or lack of notice
with respect to the maintenance claims being raised in the T6 Application.
 
13.                
I do not agree that a responding
party should have to look to the supporting disclosure filed with the application, to try to piece together
the claims that are
being made against them. Often times,
some of the supporting evidence is irrelevant. In this case, the Landlord’s
Legal Representative pointed out the supporting evidence also seemed to contain
complaints about various other problems not listed in the T6 Application, thus
making it difficult for both the Landlord and the Board to understand what
maintenance issues were being alleged.




 
Adjournment Request Denied
 
14.                
The Tenant’s Legal Representative requested an adjournment to amend the T6
application to include the necessary details.
The adjournment request was opposed by the Landlord’s Legal
Representative. I considered the factors set out in Rule 21.8 of the Board’s Rules
of Procedure and denied the adjournment
request.
 
15.                
The reason for the adjournment was
to amend; however, the Tenant knew or ought
to have known what the procedure was for amending
their T6 Application. In, fact, over the past 2
years, there were already 2 prior amendments submitted.
 
16.                
The issues in the T6 Application involve various maintenance problems claimed by
the Tenant. However, the Tenant
vacated on October 31, 2019. Therefore,
the issues in the Application deal with alleged maintenance problems which were
no longer being suffered by the Tenant/Applicant for over 2 years by the time
of this hearing.
 
17.                
The Landlord’s Legal
Representative submitted that it would be highly prejudicial to the Landlord to allow a
further amendment given the
history of this matter. The Tenant was represented for most of the file. The Tenant’s
side had already submitted two
written amendments so they knew the process.
The supporting evidence contained claims about lack of maintenance and
additional damage claims with respect to the pool, gardening, and sprinkler –
it would be unfair to allow the T6 application to be perfected at this late
stage.
 
18.                
The lacking information is not
minor in nature. This is not a
situation where a few specific dates or a person’s name needs to be added to the T6 Application. the proposed amendments would be essentially an overhaul of the Application.
 
19.                
The history of this matter has
been long. The cursory details in the
T6 Application seems to indicate the alleged maintenance issues arose years ago
and were longstanding (ie: from “2015” when the current Landlord bought the
property; or from the “start of the tenancy” in 2018).
 
20.   
If the T6 Application was allowed
to be amended there would be further delay until the next hearing. There was an “agent” for the Landlord
mentioned in the T6 Application. It was alleged
the Landlord was frequently away in China. The
Tenant vacated in October 2019. It
would be difficult with a further adjournment, to try to obtain all the
necessary witnesses, documents, and evidence
for incidents that likely arose years ago, involving people who may no
longer be found.
 
21.                
The history of the Application at the Board has also been
long. There was a
case management hearing in March, 2019. There were already 2 hearings




 
(before Members Irwin and Whittick). The application has already had 2 written amendment requests.
 
22.                
I also considered the prejudice to
the parties if this adjournment request was granted or denied. The Tenant was self-represented when she
filed the T6 application in January
2019. Her explanation for the lack of details
was that she did not know those details were
required since there was extensive supporting evidence. The Tenant retained Ms. Ranger in August 2019. Despite being represented from August 2019
onwards, there was no reasonable explanation provided why her representative did not
amend to include more details for
more than two years.
 
23.                
The Tenant may be
limitation-barred from raising these same issues at the Board or other jurisdiction if the adjournment request were not granted. That would be prejudicial for the Tenant.
 
24.                
I also considered the prejudice to
the Landlord if the adjournment to amend were granted. Further delay would result. Sometime
later this year the Landlord may learn for the first time, the necessary
details in the amended T6 Application involving alleged
maintenance problems they are being accused for, several years after they allegedly
arose. The Landlord would then have
to navigate trying to defend against those claims by coming up with
submissions, evidence, documents, and witnesses.
 
25.                
Considering all of the above, I did not find that allowing the adjournment request would be the most expeditious or
fair outcome. The Landlord’s right to
know the claims being made against them and providing the Landlord the adequate
opportunity to know the issues in a timely manner, outweighs the prejudice to
the Tenant who had representation and ample opportunity to perfect their T6
Application during the life cycle of this matter.
 
26.                
The Tenant’s adjournment request
is denied.
 
Insufficient Particulars in T6 Application
 
27.                
The Tenant’s T6 Application as-is (whether it is the original version,
Amended, or Amended Amended versions) does not contain basic details
about the alleged maintenance issues.
 
28.                
Since there are insufficient
particulars provided to the Landlord to which to respond to the allegations, the maintenance claims
cannot be adjudicated, and the Board cannot make any determinations.
 
29.                
For the reasons given above, the T6 Application shall be dismissed.




 
 
 
 
It is ordered
that:
 
30.                 
The tenant is terminated as of October
31, 2019, the date the parties agreed the
Tenant turned over the keys and gave vacant possession of the rental unit back
to the Landlord.
 
31.                
The Board consented to the T1 claim for $4,000.00 illegal
charge to be withdrawn.
 
32.                 
The parties resolved the T1 claim for $200.00 key deposit
on consent. The Landlord’s Legal Representative shall mail a cheque for $200.00 to Ranger
Paralegal Service in trust, to be delivered by December 23, 2021.
 
33.                
The T6 Application is dismissed.
 
 
February 09, 2022
Date Issued                                                                                Michelle Tan
Member, Landlord and Tenant
Board
 
Toronto East-RO
2275 Midland Avenue, Unit 2
Toronto ON M1P3E7
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332- 3234.

