Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
TNL-30570-21

Citation:	Nam v Park, 2022 CanLII 52514 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jptzz>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNL-30570-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


1301, 10 NORTHTOWN WAY TORONTO ON M2N7L4


 




Between:


Joo Yeun Nam Dong
Yeun Nam


Landlords




 


 
and


 




 


Ju Young Park Jueun Park


Tenants



 
 
 
Joo Yeun Nam
(JYN) and Dong Yeun Nam (DYN) (the 'Landlords') applied for an order to
terminate the tenancy and evict Ju
(Sara) Young Park (JYP) and Jueun Park (JP) (the 'Tenants')
because the Tenants did not pay the rent that the Tenants owe.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on July 5, 2021. The Landlords, their Representative, Siqi (Lily) Yao,
and the Tenants attended the hearing.
 
Young Bok Nam’s divorce
attorney, Clara Yoo and the Tenants’ mother,
Hye Kyung (HK), attended as a witnesses.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
This application is
based on a Notice of Termination for Non-Payment of Rent (N4) served on the Tenants
on January 12, 2021 with a termination date of January
31, 2021.
 
2.    
At the outset of the
hearing the Tenants raised the issue as to whether or not the application was
properly before the Board. The
Tenants suggest this is a family dispute and
should be adjudicated in another court
of competent jurisdiction. I proceeded to hear
the Tenants arguments.
 
3.    
The Tenants
advise they moved
into the unit in November
2019. It is their evidence
that the unit was purchased by their mother’s husband, YBN, as an
investment and the Tenants were to maintain the unit until it was to be resold.
YBN and HK lived in British Columbia at the time. The Tenants testified there was no expectation to pay rent, and
that they never made any payments to YBN for rent.
 
4.    
On June 25, 2020,
YBN asked the Tenants to sign a Standard Ontario
Lease Agreement, back dated
to November 30, 2020. The stated rent is $2,000.00. The Tenants were




 
advised by their
mother and YBN that this was necessary so YBN could obtain a mortgage on the
rental property. As they were
“family” and wanted to help YBN obtain his mortgage, they did as asked. The Tenants signed
the lease, dating
the document for November 30, 2019.
 
5.    
The marriage between HK
and YBN broke down in September 2020 and HK moved in with the Tenants. The first time they became
aware that they were expected
to pay rent was when they were served with a Termination Notice for
Persistently Late Payment of Rent (N8) in October 2020 given by YBN.
 
6.    
The Tenants testified
they have minimal financial means, JYP was a student with part time employment and student loans,
and JP was unemployed, relying
on savings and his
mother for spending money. It is the Tenants’ position they could never afford
$2,000.00 per month rent and would not have moved in had they been required to
pay rent.
 
7.    
In response
to my questions JYP advised
there has never been a rent increase
and there is no Rent Deposit. JYP advised they moved out of the unit in
May 2021 in response to an agreement brokered in Family Court.
 
8.    
HK then gave her oral
testimony. HK speaks Korean and her
testimony was translated by her son, JP. I canvassed the LLR and she had no objection
to allowing JP to translate the testimony as the Landlords
speak Korean and would speak up if they felt the translation was inaccurate.
 
9.    
HK advised
that her ex-husband purchased the unit as an investment and permitted her children to live rent free in the
unit. HK was not named on title or
the mortgage.
 
10.  The Landlord’s Representative attempted to call CY as a witness. Before
being permitted to testify I
asked the Representative if CY had any direct knowledge of the transactions. As
she did not, I declined to hear her testimony.
Although not directly raised by either party, there was a suggestion
that the residency of HK in the rental unit precluded any legal action against
the Tenants. This is not a
matrimonial home. YBN and HK never
lived in the property together, and the property was purchased as an
investment.
 
11.  The Landlord’s Representative did not call
any other witnesses. She tendered
documentary evidence including the transfer of ownership, dated January 8,
2021, from YBN to the current Landlords, who are YBN’s adult children, and the
signed lease agreement, signed and dated by the
Tenants and YBN. It is the representative’s position that the existence of a signed Lease Agreement
is sufficient evidence
of the obligation of the
Tenants to pay rent.
 
Analysis
 
12.  There is no question the applicants are the
Landlords, having purchased the property from
their father, YBN on January
8, 2021. As the Landlords
they are entitled
to collect rent lawfully
owed, including any rent arrears that accumulated before the change of ownership.




 
 
 
13.  A Landlord is defined by section 2 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the’ Act’), which says that “landlord’ includes
 
(a)  
the owner of a rental unit who permits
occupancy of a residential unit, other than a tenant who occupies a rental unit
in a residential complex and who permits another person to also occupy the unit
or any part of the unit,
 
(b)  
the heirs,
assigns, personal representatives and successors in title
of a person referred to in clause (a), and
 
(c)   a person other than a tenant
occupying a rental unit in a residential complex, who is entitled to possession of the residential
complex and who attempts to enforce any of the rights of a landlord under a tenancy
agreement or this Act,
including the right to collect rent.
 
14.  Section
2 of the Act defines rent as follows:
 
Rent includes
the amount of any consideration paid or given or required to be paid or given by or on behalf of a tenant to a landlord
or the landlord’s agent for the right to occupy a rental unit…”
 
15.  The Tenants have testified they never paid
rent, were not required to pay rent at the outset of the tenancy
and that rent only became due when the relationship between YBN and HK
broke down.
 
16.  Section
202 of the Act
states:
 
In making findings
on an application the Board shall ascertain the real substance
of all transactions and activities relating to a residential complex or
rental unit and the good faith of the participants and in doing so,
 
a).May disregard the outward form of a transaction or the separate
corporate existence of the participants; and
b).May have regard to the pattern of activities relating
to the residential complex or rental unit.
17. 
I accept
the oral testimony
of the Tenants:
 
- 
that YBN permitted the Tenants to live rent free in the unit as of November 2019, the date the Tenants moved in to the
rental unit;
-that the Tenants signed
and backdated the Standard Lease Agreement on June
25, 2020;
- 
that YBN attempted to collect rent only after his marriage
to the Tenants’ mother broke
down;
-that YBN transferred ownership of the property
to his adult children on January 8, 2021




 
- 
that the new Landlords
served the Tenants
with an N4 after they took ownership
 
18.  I find, based on the balance of
probabilities that no Landlord-Tenant relationship exists/existed between YBN
and the Tenants, and therefore between the named Landlords and the Tenants. YBN was a benefactor to the Tenants and
then changed his mind following his marriage break up. However, just because YBN changed his mind, does not mean he can impose
a new agreement or alter an existing
agreement. The new owners are bound by the terms of the
original agreement and are not, therefore, entitled to collect rent pursuant to
the Residential Tenancies Act.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Landlords’ application is dismissed.
 
 
January 5, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Dawn King
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite
700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

