Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-07
File number:	
TNL-36276-21

Citation:	Mitsopoulos v Zabrodskiy, 2022 CanLII 122675 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp35>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNL-36276-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


2, 168 ELDER STREET TORONTO ON M3H5H1


 




Between:


Athena Mitsopoulos


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Anatoliy Zabrodskiy


Tenant



 
 
 
Athena Mitsopoulos (the
'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Anatoliy
Zabrodskiy (the 'Tenant') because the Landlord has entered into an agreement of
purchase and sale of the rental unit and the purchaser requires
possession of the rental unit for
the purpose of residential occupation.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on January 6th, 2022.
 
The Landlord’s son Tony
Mitsopoulos, as well as the Landlord’s representative Gregory Andreopoulos attended
on behalf of the Landlord. The Tenant appeared
on his own behalf along
with his son, Dmitry Zabrodskiy.
 
Application
 
1.    The residential complex
owned by the Landlord in question contains
3 separate units. The
Tenant lives in unit #2. The Tenant has been living in this unit since 2002,
and the lease has been month to month since that year.
 
2.    The Landlord has filed an L2 application based on an
N12 notice to evict the Tenant on behalf of the purchasers of the
property, Ayse Karasan
and Salih Mesut
Kaya so they can move into the unit. I note that the
purchasers never attended the hearing.
 
3.   
The Landlord’s son testified that
an Agreement of Purchase in Sale was entered into last year with a closing
date of December 18th, 2021, which has been extended
for the purpose of this hearing and the hearing
for the other unit (#3). The affidavit of Ayse Karasan that was filed with the
application attesting that he intends moving into this unit. I note that the
agreement of purchase of sale was never provided to the Tenant, nor was it
filed with the Board.




 
4.   
The Tenant’s rent is $1192.14. The
Landlord provided evidence that compensation was paid to the Tenant
by the waiver of two months rent in October
and November, 2021.
The Landlord further waived a $50 rental fee for the use of a garage.
 
5.    I further note that Schedule
“B” of the application includes
the disclosure of an N12 for unit #2 from November 22nd,
2019 however, the Landlord erroneously listed the Tenant (as, “Anatoliy
Zabroosky”), rather than the intended occupant of that unit.
 
6.    That initial N12 application against the Tenant had
been withdrawn, as the Tenant had vacated the unit for the Landlord’s own use.
The Tenant however, then returned to the unit after the Landlord had passed away and never took possession of the unit.
The Tenant still had keys and continued paying rent.
 
Preliminary Motion
 
7.   
The Tenant submitted that the
application should be dismissed because the application erroneously indicates
him as “Anatoliy Zabroosky”. The Tenant submitted
that his name is
spelled “Anatoliy Zabrodskiy”.
 
8.   
The Landlord
submitted that due to the age of the lease,
he was not sure how to exactly spell the Tenant’s name.
 
9.    I note that the Tenant attended the hearing, that he admitted
to living in the unit in question and the relative closeness of the
spelling in the application and the spelling the Tenant provided on record. I
denied the motion to dismiss the application and amended the application to
reflect the proper spelling of the Tenant’s name.
 
Tenant’s Evidence
 
10. The Tenant testified
that he had a conversation with the Landlords
when the first N12 was filed in 2019 and was advised that the
Landlord’s wife and son would be moving into the unit.
 
11. He further testified that he had a further
conversation with the Landlords last
summer and was advised that the
Landlords were planning on conducting a major renovation of the residential
complex to create additional units.
 
12. He further testified that he is suspicious of the agreement
with the purchasers, as he finds it
hard to believe
that the purchasers would
occupy the entire
building. He advised
that he and Unit #3 are being
evicted while Unit #1 is being permitted to stay in their unit.
 
Determinations:
 
13. Having reviewed the application and the Landlord’s son evidence I find that the evidence
provided by the Landlord’s son is not sufficient with respect to this
application.




 
14.
The Landlords
never filed the Agreement of Purchase of Sale. When questioned about this the
Landlord’s realtor advised that he didn’t
think he had to. While that
might be the case, I still find a
negative inference due to the lack of the agreement of purchase and sale not
being submitted as evidence. I find that the lack of this information provided
does not support the Landlord’s application that there is a firm deal in place.
 
15.
As such,
on a balance of probabilities I do not find that the
Landlord’s application and evidence provided is sufficient to
support eviction of this Tenant.
It is ordered that:
 
16.  The Tenant shall repay the Landlord compensation in the amount
of $2,434,28.
 
17. The Landlord's application is dismissed.
 
 
February 7th, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Jagger Benham
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite
700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

