Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-15
File number:	
TNL-93335-17

Citation:	TNL-93335-17 (Re), 2022 CanLII 122556 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp4j>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:


 
 
 
Order under Section 126
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
 
 
 
TMLCOBRPMI (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order permitting the rent charged
to be increased by more than
the guideline for one or more of the rental units in the residential complex.
 
A video conference hearing was
held for this application on May 31, 2019 and July 27, 2021. The Landlord’s Agent, MT, and the Legal Representative, HW, attended the hearing
on both hearing days. The following Tenants also attended the hearing on both
hearing days: AW (‘AW’) and (‘JW’). The
Tenants (‘JR’), (‘MM’) attended the hearing on May 31, 2019. The Landlord’s witness, (‘DC’), attended
the hearing on both hearing days.
 
It is determined that:
 
1.                 
The Landlord justified a rent increase
above the guideline
because of capital expenditures.
 
2.                 
The maximum rent increase
above the guideline
because of capital
expenditures is 0.88%. This
increase is for the following capital expenditures:
a.                  
Asphalt Replacement;
b.                 
Water Retrofit; and
c.                  
Heat Reflectors.
 
3.                 
The Tenants AW, JW and JR gave evidence
of their belief
that the asphalt
paving work at the
residential complex was not done in accordance with industry standards, or was
otherwise not of workmanlike quality. The Tenants testified that the first
layer of asphalt appeared rough and unfinished until a second layer was
eventually applied. The Tenants also gave evidence of cracks that formed after
the asphalt paving work was completed. JW, who was employed as a researcher,
gave evidence of her belief that the Landlord’s




contractor failed to do the asphalt
work in a professional manner.
 
4.                 
The Landlord’s witness DC is the
general manager of the company that performed the asphalt paving work at the
residential complex. DC has over 30
years’ experience with the company. DC testified that he inspected the asphalt
at the residential complex and determined that the asphalt required
replacement. The Landlord submitted photographs from July or August 2016,
showing cracks in the asphalt and photographs taken in September 2016 after the asphalt work had been completed. DC testified that, in addition to replacing asphalt, the work
also attempted to improve the
property’s grading. The land on which the residential complex lies, however,
interfered with the grading work.
 
5.                 
DC did not dispute the Tenants’
observation that the first layer of asphalt DC’s company applied at the
residential complex appeared rough and unfinished. DC explained that the scope of work to replace asphalt
at the residential complex required
two layers of asphalt.
DC testified that the first layer of asphalt is intentionally coarse.
The rough appearance of the first layer creates more surface area to promote adhesion
to the second, finer layer of asphalt.
 
6.                 
DC also did not dispute the
Tenants’ evidence of cracks that had appeared in the asphalt near a drain cover or catch basin. DC confirmed
that, although his company was hired to replace the asphalt, the company was
not responsible for replacing the drain cover.
DC testified that he was nevertheless made aware of the issue in or
about November 2018 when the Landlord informed him of it. DC’s company obtained
an independent assessment of the cracks. The Landlord submitted
a copy of the assessment report, which
concludes that the cracks are the result of normal wear and tear over a
two-year period. DC testified that his company returned to the property to
fill-in and repair the cracks.
 
7.                 
Although the Tenants believe that
asphalt work at the property was not done in accordance with industry standards or was otherwise not of workmanlike quality, I prefer the Landlord’s evidence of the
project and find that the work to replace asphalt at the residential complex
was necessary and was adequate.
 
8.                 
I
am mindful that the Tenant
JR has extensive experience as a researcher. The Landlord’s
witness DC also has extensive experience in his field of work. I find DC’s
testimony, which was based on over 30 years’ relevant experience in asphalt
work, is of greater probative value than are JR’s beliefs and opinions, which
are based on her own research of undisclosed materials.
 
9.                 
I
therefore conclude that the Landlord
proved, on a balance of probabilities, that its
project to repair asphalt at the residential complex represents an eligible
capital expenditure for an above-guideline rent increase under subsection
126(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).
 
10.             
The Landlord also proved, on a
balance of probabilities, that its projects to install heat reflectors in
rental units and to upgrade toilets also represent capital expenditures under
subsection 126(7)(e) of the Act. The
Landlord’s Agent testified that the Landlord undertook these projects to
promote energy and water conservation at the residential complex. Although
the Tenants gave evidence of their belief
that the heat reflectors and new toilets do not contribute to
energy and water conservation, the Landlord’s Agent




gave both oral and documentary evidence
showing a reduction in electricity and water
consumption at the residential complex. I
prefer the Landlord’s Agent’s evidence of matters within her knowledge and the documentary evidence over the Tenants’ belief.
 
11.             
At the hearing, the Tenant JR submitted that the Landlord’s cost of upgrading toilets was an
ineligible expenditure because of subsection 126(8) of the Act. JR testified that the toilets the Landlord
replaced were relatively new, and the work was therefore unnecessary. Subsection 126(8) of the Act, however,
permits the Landlord to replace
relatively new toilets to promote water
conservation. The Landlord’s project to upgrade toilets at the residential complex
is therefore an eligible capital improvement.
 
12.             
The Landlord did not, however, prove
that repair work done to a canopy
or awning at the
residential complex represents an eligible capital
expenditure for an above-guideline rent increase.
 
13.             
The Landlord’s Agent testified
that the Landlord
hired a company to repair rusted metal posts and to upgrade signage at the
front of the related buildings that make up the residential complex. The
Landlord’s Agent explained that the work was necessary to maintain the entrance
to each building and to make the address numbers more visible from the street.
The Landlord’s Agent further testified that the Landlord installed an awning at
each of the buildings.
 
14.             
Based on the Landlord’s Agent’s
own description of the work, I find that the Landlord’s project to upgrade building
entrances represent either routine maintenance and repairs, or substantially cosmetic work. The
Landlord’s project is therefore not an eligible capital project, per subsection
18(1) of Ontario Regulation 516/06.
 
15.             
I
have accepted the Landlord’s request
to withdraw the following capital
expenditures from the application:
a.                  
Door Entry System;
b.                 
Garage Door & Door Hardware;
c.                  
Recirculating Pump
Replacement;
d.                 
Heater Pump Motor Replacement; and
e.                  
Garage Roof Repairs.
 
16.             
The weighted useful life for the capital expenditures is as specified on Schedule 3.
 
17.             
The first effective date of the increase above the guideline is August 1, 2017.
 
18.             
The Landlord or the Tenants shall
pay to the other any sum of money that is owed as a result of this order within 90 days of
the date of this order.
 
It is ordered
that:
 
1.                 
The Landlord may increase
the rents charged
by the percentage increases and within
the time periods set out in Schedule 3.
 
2.                 
The percentage increase set out in Schedule 3 may be taken in addition to the annual guideline in effect on the increase
date for the unit.




 
3.                 
The Landlord or the Tenants shall pay to the other any sum of money that
is owed as a result of this
order within 90 days of the date of this order.
 
 
 
February 15, 2022
Date Issued                                                                 Harry Cho
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
Toronto North-RO
7th Floor,
47 Sheppard Avenue
East, Suite 700 Toronto, ON, M2N5X5
Fax No: 416 - 314 - 9567
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234. Important Notes:
1.                 
The landlord may increase
the rent charged
by the ordered increase within
the time period specified if at least 12 months
have passed since the last rent increase or since the tenant moved in, and if
the landlord has given the tenant at least 90 days proper Notice of Rent
Increase. Any part of the ordered
increase that is not taken within the time period specified cannot be added to
subsequent rent increases in subsequent time periods.
 
2.                 
If the landlord has given a Notice of Rent Increase
for a rent increase that is less than the ordered increase, the landlord may
only take the rent increase set out in the Notice.
 
3.                 
The ordered increase does not
affect tenants who moved into the complex on or after May 3, 2017. The landlord cannot
add the ordered
increase to the rents these tenants pay.




 




 




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          







                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          




File Number:
TNL-93335-17
Schedule 4 - Rent Reduction related
to Capital Expenditures
 
A.   
Date of Rent Reduction
 
If the Tenant’s rent is increased based on capital
expenditures during the period
2017 then:
 
The date of the rent
reduction will be the day
before:
•                    
the date of the Tenant’s first rent increase
under this order, plus
•                    
the number of years
for the weighted
useful life for capital expenditures for the unit (set
out in Schedule 3).
 
Example:
If the Tenant’s rent was increased on June 1, 2007 and the weighted
useful life for capital
expenditures is 10 years, then the rent will be reduced on May 31, 2017.
 
 
If the Tenant’s
rent was not
increased based on capital expenditures during the period 2017 but was increased during the
later periods set out in the order then:
 
The date of the rent
reduction will be the day
before:
•                    
the First Effective Date of Rent Increase in this order,
plus
•                    
the number of years
for the weighted
useful life for capital expenditures for the unit (set
out in Schedule 3).
 
Example:
If
the first effective date of increase
in this order is April 1, 2007 and the weighted useful life for capital expenditures is 12 years,
then the rent will be reduced on March 31, 2019.
 
 
B.   
Amount of the Rent Reduction
 
If the Tenant’s rent is increased
by the total percentage increase
set out in this order
then: The rent must be reduced
by the total percentage increase set out in this order for capital expenditures.
 
If the Tenant’s
rent is not increased by the total
percentage increase set out in this order then:
The rent must be reduced by an
amount determined in accordance with the prescribed rules which may be equal
to or less than the total percentage increase set out in this order for capital
expenditures.
 
 
 
 
Schedule 4 - Page 1 of 1

