Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-10
File number:	
TNL-30545-21

Citation:	Rpms Property Management Services Inc v Bailey, 2022 CanLII 56740 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq19c>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNL-30545-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


614, 10 SAN ROMANOWAY
  TORONTO ON M3N2Y2


 




Between:


Rpms Property Management Services Inc


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Winston
Bailey


Tenant



 
Rpms Property
Management Services Inc (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the
tenancy and evict Winston Bailey
(the 'Tenant') because the Tenant or
another occupant of the
rental unit has committed an illegal act or has carried out, or permitted
someone to carry out an illegal trade, business or occupation
in the rental unit or the residential complex. The Landlord also claimed
compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination
date.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on July 22, 2021.
 
The Landlord
and the Tenant
attended the hearing. The Landlord was represented by Geoff Paine.
 
Also in attendance was the Landlord’s witness, Imran Belim.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
By way of background this is month-to-month tenancy in which the rent is due on the first
of the month in the amount of $1,242.21. This tenancy began six years ago and
the Tenant lives in the rental unit with his 14-year-old daughter.
 
2.    
The Landlord’s L2 application is based on a N6 notice
of termination served
to the Tenant on January 29, 2021 with a termination date of February
27, 2021 alleging the Tenant, their occupant or someone they permitted,
committed an illegal act on the residential premises.
 
Landlord’s Evidence
 
3.    
The Landlord’s witness,
Imran Belim, IB, is the property manager for the building who reviewed the surveillance footage
that was submitted to the Board as evidence. While at the hearing,
I was not able to view the videos that were submitted into evidence and relied on the description of the videos
made by the property manager,
I was able to view the videos thereafter which
accurately depicted the description provided.




 
4.    
IB’s evidence and the
videos submitted show that on January 26, 2021 at approximately 4:30am, an
individual in a blue shirt, exits the rental unit, goes into the stairwell and
is seen to be smoking there.
Another individual with a black
sweatshirt joins him and can be
seen to be rolling and sharing a smoke.
 
5.    
The Landlord submits
that this conduct exhibited by the Tenant’s occupant and/or someone they
permitted to the rental unit constitutes an illegal act – specifically smoking
inside the residential complex and seeks a termination of the tenancy
and reimbursement of the
application filing fee.
 
Tenant’s Evidence
 
6.    
The Tenant testified
that he was also unable to review the video footage as part of the Landlord’s
disclosure he received. To address this issue and with the consent of the
parties, I instructed the Tenant
to provide the Landlord with 3 hours notice to attend the Landlord’s office by July 26, 2021 to
view the footage and make submissions to the Board. I permitted the Landlord to
make a post-hearing submission based on the Tenant’s submissions by July 28, 2021 after which I
would consider these submissions when
I issued the order.
 
7.    
The Tenant testified
that between December 20, 2020 and January 29, 2021 he was in Jamaica and not at the rental
unit; the Tenant
testified that the individual in the blue shirt
does not live in the rental unit and
was the brother of his
daughter so perhaps he
visited the rental unit to speak with her. However, neither the Tenant nor his
daughter had control over his actions.
 
8.    
The Tenant seeks that
the application be dismissed as the Tenant seeks to preserve his tenancy; otherwise, the Tenant is confident he can adhere to a conditional order requiring
him to refrain from the conduct on the N6 notice of termination; in the
alternative, the Tenant seeks 45 days to secure alternative housing.
 
9.    
On cross-examination, the Tenant confirmed
that he did not know what had happened
because he was not around at the time of the incident.
 
10.  The Landlord’s response
was the Tenant was responsible for the actions
of his occupants and guests permitted by them; furthermore, there was
no evidence before the Board, presented by the Tenant, that he was actually in
Jamaica on the date of the incident.
 
ANALYSIS
 
11.  Section 61 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 states:
 
61 (1) A landlord
may give a tenant notice of termination of the tenancy
if the tenant or another occupant of the rental unit commits an illegal
act or carries on an illegal trade, business or occupation or permits a person
to do so in the rental unit or the residential complex.
 
12. 
Based on the evidence
before the Board I am satisfied that the Tenant was not at the rental unit – I
have no reason to doubt the
credibility of the Tenant; with respect to the incident, the Tenant’s evidence
before the Board was hearsay
as it was his daughter’s




 
account of what happened;
the Tenants’ daughter, who is an occupant of the rental
unit, was not present to provide testimony of the incident.
 
13.  However, I find that the evidence before
the Board fails to establish that the Tenant’s daughter permitted her brother
to the rental unit or on the residential premises
to commit an illegal act.
This is supported by the case law cited below.
 
14.  In Metropolitan Toronto Housing
Authority v. Jackson [1988] O.J. No. 699, the Court found that where the tenant was unaware of, and not wilfully blind to, the drug activities of her son, she did not permit the illegal act and the ground
for eviction was not made out. The application was therefore dismissed.
 
15.  In NOL-00761, 2007, which is not
binding on me but which I find relevant to the case before the Board, the Board
found that the person charged with the police finding a sawed-off shotgun
and ammunition in a backpack
in the rental unit was not an “occupant”
of the rental unit as he was only an occasional visitor there. It was also held
that the tenant did not permit the illegal act as the tenant did not know about
the weapon.
 
16. 
Absent any other evidence,
I find that the Landlord has not met their burden of proof
and their case is speculative at best. The Tenant’s daughter may have permitted
her brother to be there, but it is unclear whether she knew or permitted her
brother to commit the illegal act of smoking inside the stairwell. As a result,
the Landlord’s application must be dismissed.
17.  This order contains
all of the reasons for my decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Landlord’s application is dismissed.












January 10, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Sonia Anwar-Ali
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite 700, 7th Floor
Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

