Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-24
File number:	
TNL-31810-21; 
 TNT-35189-21; 
 TNL-36391-21

Citation:	Eagle Capital Corporation v Minas, 2022 CanLII 83550 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrwtb>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Numbers: TNL-31810-21, TNT-35189-21
and TNL-36391-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


20 SANDRINGHAM DRIVE TORONTO ON M5M3G3


 




Between:


Eagle Capital Corporation Kerry Evan Adler


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Janet Minas
  Victor Minas


Landlords



 
 
Janet Minas and Victor Minas (the
‘Landlords’) applied for an order terminating the tenancy of and evicting Eagle
Capital Corporation (‘Eagle Capital’) and Kerry Evan Adler (together, the
'Tenants') because they required the rental unit for purposes of residential
occupation. The Tenants applied for an order
determining that the Landlords, among other things:
(a) entered the rental unit illegally; (b) altered
the locking system on a door giving entry to the rental unit without giving them replacement keys; and (c) substantially interfered with their reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit. The Landlords applied
for a determination as to whether the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') applies to the tenancy between the Landlords and the Tenants.
 
This application was heard by
video conference on November 12, 2021. The Tenants and the Landlords attended
the hearing. The Landlords were represented by James McReynolds and Symon Zucker. The
Tenants were represented by David Strashin and Benjamin Salsberg.
 
I heard evidence from Ms Minas
and Rachel Bellissimo (aka Rachel Ramos).
 
The parties requested that I
consider (and rely on) the evidence that was before the Superior Court when it
heard a motion in an action, which is described further below, commenced by the
Tenants against the Landlords. I agreed1 and have reviewed
and considered what I believe
to be all of the evidence that
was before the Superior Court, including the affidavit of Mr. Minas sworn
August 27, 2021, and affidavits of Mr. Adler sworn August 23 and 29, 2021, the
affidavit of Ms Bellissimo sworn August 23, 2021 and the affidavit of Ingrid
Matckars sworn August 23, 2021, and the transcripts from the cross-examination
of Mr. Minas on August 27, 2021, and Mr. Adler and Ms Bellissimo on August 30,
2021 (the ‘SCJ Evidence’).
 
 












1 This was, in my view, a more efficient way of
addressing the evidence than having the parties provide viva voce evidence effectively repeating the evidence
in the affidavits they swore for the purposes of the motion
before Justice Dow and then
have cross-examination on that evidence.




 
The Landlords and the Tenants
also each provided
me with written
submissions, which I have
considered.
 
For ease of reference, I have reproduced the relevant provisions of the Act and the Statutory Powers Procedures Act (the
‘SPPA’) in Schedule A to this order.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.     There are a number of applications by the Landlords
seeking to terminate the tenancy of and evict the Tenants pending before
the Board.
 
2.     I was initially scheduled to hear an L2 application
brought by the Landlords based on an
N12 notice. However, for the reasons
described below, that application ultimately morphed into the applications that
were before me on November 12, 2021.
 
3.     In addition to the applications that I have heard on November 12, 2021, there are other applications by the Landlords
seeking to terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenants that are pending before
the Board.
 
I.            
The Applications Addressed
by this Order L2 Application—TNL-31810-21
4.     On April 10, 2021, the Landlords filed an
L2 application based on an N12 notice that
they had served on March 29, 2021.
 
5.     The application first came before me for hearing on
August 5, 2021, but I adjourned the
hearing to September 7, 2021. Unfortunately, the application had to be adjourned again on September 7, 2021, because I had
mistakenly scheduled the hearing for Rosh Hashanah. I re-schedule the hearing to October 25, 2021.
 
6.     The application had, unbeknownst to me until the
parties appeared before me on October 25, 2021, effectively become moot on
August 16, 2021, when the Landlords exercised ‘self-help’, terminated the
tenancy and locked the Tenants out of the rental unit based on the assertion
that the Act had ceased to apply by that date. On October 25, 2021,
the Landlords indicated that they wished
to withdraw the L2 application and I granted
permission for them to do so pursuant to subsection 200(4) of the Act.
 
Superior Court Action—CV-21-00667327-0000
 
7.     On August 19, 2021, the Tenants commenced an action
(the ‘SCJ Action’)
seeking $10 million in
general damages and $200,000 in punitive damages based on the allegation that
the Landlords had illegally locked them out of the rental unit and removed
their personal possession from the unit. The
Tenants brought a motion in the SCJ Action seeking a mandatory injunction
putting them back into possession of the rental unit.




 
That motion was heard
by Justice Dow on September
13, 2021, and dismissed by him
on October 22, 2021. [Adler v. Minas, 2021 ONSC 6224 (CanLII)]
 
T2 Application—TNT-35189-21
 
8.     On October 12, 2021, the Tenants filed a T2 application
based on the allegation that the Landlords had locked them out of the
rental unit in contravention of section 24 of the Act—the same allegations as
are being made in the SCJ Action. On
the T2, the Tenants are seeking an order that they be permitted to re-take
possession of the rental unit. They
are not seeking a rent abatement or any compensation from the Landlords.2
 
9.     At the hearing
on October 25, 2021, I directed that the
T2 be heard at the same
time as an A1 application to
be filed by the Landlords seeking a finding that the Act does not apply to the
rental unit.
 
A1  Application—TNL-36391-21
 
10. 
On October
29, 2021, the Landlords filed an A1 application seeking
a determination as to whether the Act applies to the
rental unit. This application was
filed in connection with the Tenants’ T2 application.3
 
II.           
The Facts
 
1.    
The rental unit is a
large luxury single-family home in Toronto.
The Tenants leased
the rental unit from the Landlords beginning August 1, 2019, for $18,000.00 per month plus utilities.
 
2.     Mr. Adler is the President
and CEO of SkyPower Services
ULC (‘SkyPower’).
SkyPower develops, builds, owns,
and operates ‘utility-scale’ solar projects.
The company has offices
in various cities,
including Toronto, Ontario
and Dubai, United
Arab Emirates. Its global head
office is in Toronto.
 
3.     Mr. Adler is also the principal of tenant Eagle
Capital. According to Mr. Adler,
Eagle Capital is a ‘passive investor’
that carries on no active business and has no day-to-day
business activities. The company has what Mr. Adler described as a ‘small
interest’ in SkyPower. Eagle Capital
‘occupied’ the rental
unit in the sense that Mr. Adler appears
to maintain the company’s books and records in a home office in the rental unit.
 
4.     The relationship between the Landlords and the Tenants—or at least Mr. Adler—has
deteriorated for reasons that are not particularly relevant to the applications
that are before me. Suffice as to say
that there have been, as noted above, a number of












2 In their written
submission, the Landlords
assert that the Tenants are seeking a rent abatement
of $36,000.000, costs of
$35,000.00 and out-of-pocket expenses. This
relief is not claimed on the T2 and I confirmed with the Tenants that they are
seeking only to be put back into possession of the rental unit.
3 I could have determined whether the Act applies to the
rental unit on the T2 application, but in my view the most expeditious and
cost-effective determination of the various issue before me warranted giving
the Landlords the opportunity to file an A1 application so that I would have a more fulsome appreciation of the Landlords’ argument as to why
the Act did not apply.




 
applications commenced by the Landlords seeking to evict the Tenants and a number
of those applications are pending before the Board.
 
5.    
The Tenants’ T2 application was
brought because, on August 16, 2021, the Landlords purported to terminate the
tenancy and evict the Tenants without an order of the Board or the Tenants’ consent
based on the allegations that: (a) the Act had ceased to apply to the rental unit; and (b) the Tenants
had breached the applicable tenancy agreement.
 
6.     The Landlords’ position
that the Act had, as at August 16, 2021, ceased to apply to the
rental unit was based on the assertion that Mr. Adler and his family had
relocated to Dubai and were no longer using the rental unit for residential
purposes. It is the
Tenants’ position that Mr. Adler and his family temporarily relocated to Dubai because of the COVID pandemic and that they
intended, and still intend, to return to Toronto and resume living in the
rental unit as soon as they are able.
 
7.     While there is a dispute between the Landlords and the
Tenants with respect to the utilities, there is no dispute that the Tenants
paid the monthly rent to the Landlords as and when required by the applicable
tenancy agreement. The Landlords
stopped accepting rent from the Tenants
after they purported to terminate the tenancy and evict the
Tenants.
 
8.    
Mr Adler’s asserts that pre-COVID he never conducted business from home and does not ever recall having a business meeting in his home, but that
he was forced to work from home from March of 2020 until July or August of 2020
as a result of the COVID pandemic. To facilitate his ability to work from the rental
unit, Mr. Adler set up at least
one workstation in the unit with multiple computer screens.
 
9.     In July or August of 2020, the COVID-related restrictions in Toronto eased somewhat
and Mr Adler began to attend again at SkyPower’s Toronto office. He carried on business from the Toronto
office until December of 2020, at which point the decision was made that he
would temporarily relocate to Dubai so that he could work out of SkyPower’s
office in that city until the COVID-related restrictions in Toronto were
lifted. Mr. Adler described this as a
‘business continuity plan’.
 
10.  The move to Dubai was, according to Mr. Adler,
initially intended to be for only a few weeks.
However, the circumstances with COVID changed quickly and he was unable to return to Toronto as planned.
 
11.  The Adlers are currently living in a Waldorf Astoria
hotel in Dubai. They have not
purchased or rented living accommodations in Dubai and over the course
of the time they have been in Dubai,
the Adlers have stayed at no fewer
than 14 different hotels.
 
12.  The Landlords do not seriously dispute that Mr. Adler
relocated to Dubai because SkyPower’s Toronto office was closed as a result of
the COVID pandemic, but the company’s Dubai office remained open. They further do not seriously dispute that
Mr. Adler has not established permanent roots in Dubai and has indicated that his intention is to move back to Toronto at
some point and to resume living in the rental unit. The




 
Landlords assert, however, that,
as a factual matter, the Adlers have been living in Dubai since December of 2020 and there is no definitive plan articulated by Mr. Adler to move back to Toronto.
 
13.  Ms Bellissimo worked
from the rental unit and had an office set up in one of the bedrooms. She is employed by Eagle Capital as Mr.
Adler’s ‘personal assistant’ and, in that capacity, she manages Mr. Adler’s ‘personal affairs’ and undertakes ‘clerical work in his home office’. Ms Bellissime described what she did at
the rental unit as paying bills, looking after the rental unit and attending to
the paperwork associated with Eagle Capital’s passive investments. There is no evidence that she was engaged
in any commercial activity on behalf of SkyPower.
 
14.  Subsequent to the Adlers relocating to Dubai, Ms Bellissimo continued to attend
at the rental unit between
9:00 to 17:00 Monday to Friday.
 
15.  The Adlers employed a nanny/housekeeper for their
infant child. Subsequent to the
Adlers relocating to Dubai, the nanny/housekeeper continued to attend at the rental unit on a
full-time basis until
July of 2021, at
which point in time she accepted other full-time employment. Thereafter, she attended at the unit
one day per week until the Landlords changed the locks on August 16,
2021.
 
16.  No one ‘stayed over’ at the rental unit after the
Adlers re-located to Dubai. Aside
from Ms Bellissimo, the nanny/housekeeper and, until about
sometime in January
of 2021, a cleaning person, no one else worked in
the rental unit after mid-December of
2020. There was no evidence before me of any business
meetings taking place
at the rental unit subsequent
to December of 2020.
 
17.  There was some dispute with respect to when the Landlords determined that the Adlers were not living in the rental
unit. The Tenants assert that the
Landlords had to have been aware that Adlers were not living in the unit after
December of 2020, but there is no evidence that this information was never
conveyed to the Landlords. The
Landlords assert that they did not know the Adlers were not living in the
rental unit under Mr. Minas attended at the rental unit on August 16, 2021. I
find that the Tenants first determined that the Adlers were not living in the
unit on August 15, 2021, when Mr. Adler entered the rental unit to make a
repair.
 
18.  The Landlords’ evidence is that when Mr. Minas
attended the rental unit on August 15, 2021 to effect a repair, he observed:
(a) that unit was ‘clearly abandoned’; and (b) what he referred to as
‘commercial activity’, which he described as consisting of offices, files,
photocopiers, multiple computers, shredded
documents and a ‘COVID
protocol stations’ at the
entrance to the unit, in the rental. Mr.
Minas did not actually observe any commercial
activity taking place because
August 15, 2021 was
a Sunday and there was no
one in the rental unit that day. Under cross-examination, Mr, Minas
confirmed that he had no idea what type of commercial
activity the Tenants were conducting at the rental unit.




 
19.  Based on what Mr. Minas observed
on August 15, 2021, the Landlords concluded
that
the Tenants were no longer living in the rental unit and that ‘[w]hatever attendances that have occurred on behalf of the tenants appear to have been
for entirely commercial purposes.’ On
this basis, the Landlords concluded that the Act no longer applied.
 
20.  On August 16, 2021, the Landlords’ lawyers
sent a letter to the Tenants
indicating that ‘as the tenancy no
longer appears to be residential in nature, which is a breach of the Lease, the
landlord has terminated the tenancy and re-taken possession of the Premises.’
 
21.  The Landlords changed
the locks to the rental
unit and removed
the Adlers’ personal property from the rental unit.
 
22.  The Landlords removed the Adlers’ personal possessions
from the rental unit and placed them into storage. The Landlords also appear to have searched
through the Tenants’ filing
cabinets.
 
23.  There is no dispute that the Landlords did not obtain
an order from the Board to terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenants and the
Tenants did not consent to the termination of the tenancy. The Landlords assert
that they were not required
to comply with the Act because
the Tenants’ occupation of the rental unit had, at least as of August 15, 2021,
ceased to be residential in nature such that
the Act no longer applied.
 
24.  On August 25, 2021, Mr. Minas moved
into the rental
unit. Ms Minas
ultimately joined him and it is my understanding that the Landlords
were both residing in the rental unit
on November 12, 2021
 
25.  The Landlords listed the house they were living for
sale during the Summer of 2021— after the N12 notice upon which the L2
application that was before me was served and before the L2 was scheduled to be heard. The Landlords accepted
an offer to purchase that house and the transaction
was scheduled to close on or before December 16, 2021. I am not aware of
whether or not the transaction has been completed.
 
26.  Mr. Adler testified on cross-examination that he and
his family intend to move back to Toronto and want to continue
to live in the rental
unit. There is, however, no firm plan in
place for the Adlers to return to Toronto, or at least there was not when I
heard the applications on November 12, 2021.
 
III.         
The A1 and the T2 Applications
 
27.   I heard the A1 and the T2 applications together. This was, in my view, the most expeditious and cost-effective
way of determining the applications on their merits. Both applications were scheduled
by me to be heard on
the same day and the Landlords and the Tenants each relied on the same
package of evidence in support of their applications—the SCJ Evidence. The Landlords and the Tenants also filed
written submissions that dealt with both applications.




 
28.  
At the end of the hearing, the
Landlords suggested that I should deal with the A1 application and then permit
them with the opportunity to review or appeal my order before hearing further
submission on and deciding the T2 application.
I do not believe that this would have resulted in the most expeditious
or cost-effective result. The fact
that the Landlords (or the Tenants for that matter) may decide to review or
appeal my decision on the A1 application does not, in my view, necessitate that
I delay in determining the T2 application. The
portion of my order that relates to the T2 will (or can) be stayed pending the outcome of any review or
appeal of the portion of my order that relates to whether the Act
applies to the rental unit. Delaying
a determination on the T2 until
after all review and appeal
rights in respect of the A1 have
been exhausted will, in my
view, result in unnecessary delay and costs in having these applications
determined on their merits.
 
29.   As noted by both the Landlords and the Tenants, I am required, when considering these applications, to ascertain the real
substance of all activities [Act, 202(1)] and I have done so.
 
A. A1 Application
 
30.   On the A1 application, the Landlords are requesting an order that the Act does not apply
to the rental unit. They are doing
this because, as noted below, if the Act does apply, there is no dispute, based
on the evidence of what happened on August 15 and 16, 2021, that the Landlords
breached section 24 of the Act and illegally locked out the Tenants such that
the only real issue on the T2 is what, if any, remedy should be provided to the
Tenants. If, on the other hand, the
Act does not apply—or perhaps more
accurately, no longer applies—to the rental unit the T2 must be dismissed.4
 
31.   The Board has exclusive jurisdiction to determine whether the Act applies
to a rental unit. [See
Firm Capital Management v. Heather Tessier, 2019 ONSC 55 (CanLII)]
 
32.   The Act applies to a rental unit, unless the rental
unit is of a type that is identified as being
excluded from the operation of the Act. [See Act, ss 3(1) and 5] The Act defines
‘rental unit’ to mean any living accommodation used or intended for use as rented
residential premises. [Act, s.
2(1)] This definition contains two components. For the Act to apply,
a unit must: (a) be ‘living
accommodations; and (b) be used or
intended for use as ‘rented
residential premises’. [Matthews v. Algoma
Timberlakes Corporation,
2010 ONCA 468 (CanLII)]
 
33.   The Act does not include
a definition of ‘living accommodations or ‘residential premises’, but I do not believe that there is much dispute that
the Act is intended to apply to rental units in which individuals live or are
intended to live as opposed to those that are used or intended to be used for
commercial activity—i.e. to generate business revenue. However, the application
of the Act is not excluded, in my view, simply because some commercial activity
is carried out from a rental unit. The
Act applies to living accommodations notwithstanding, for example, that a tenant operates a hobby business












4 Such a finding
by me will also likely mean the end of the Landlords’ other pending applications seeking to terminate the tenancy and evict the
Tenants.




 
from home, brings work home, works
from home or participates in Zoom meetings
from home.
 
34.   In this case, there can be no possible dispute that
the rental unit—a single-family home—is ‘living accommodations’. The second requirement of the definition
of ‘rental unit’ is disjunctive and
it is sufficient for the purposes of this application for me to find that the rental unit is ‘intended for use as rented residential premises’, which I do
below, but I will also consider other factors such as the de facto use, and the predominate purpose and use of the
of the rental unit in case I am wrong.
 
35.   The fact that the Adlers
may have stopped living in the rental unit is not determinative as to whether the Act applies. The Tenants
included Eagle Capital as well as Mr. Adler. Moreover, as was noted by the
Tenants, a tenant has a right to occupy a rental unit based on paying rent for
the use of the unit and a tenant need not reside in a unit to maintain a
tenancy so long as he or she continues to pay rent. The Act defines a rental unit to mean ‘any living accommodation
used or intended for use as rented residential premises’
(emphasis added). And subsection 2(3)
of the Act provides that a tenant does
not abandon a rental unit so long as he or she continues to pay rent.
 
36.   I am prepared to accept that a tenancy can cease to be
residential such that the Act ceases to apply.
Where, however, a landlord decides
for itself that the Act has ceased
to apply and exercises
‘self-help’ to terminate a tenancy and evict a tenant, that landlord
runs the risk that the Board will find that
the Act continues to apply and
that the landlord has effected an illegal lock-out. That is the risk that Landlords took on
August 16, 2021 when they purported to terminate the tenancy and evict the
Tenants without an order from the Board.
 
37.   The Landlords have the onus on the A1 application of
establishing, based on the balance of probabilities, that the Act does not apply (or has ceased to apply) to the
rental unit.
 
i.            
Optimal Space v. Margana
Factors
 
38.  
I
am prepared to accept
the Landlords’ position that in determining whether
a rental unit is subject to
the Act, I should consider:
 
(a)         
the intention of the parties;
 
(b)         
the de facto use
of the rental unit;
 
(c)          
the predominate purpose or use of the rental
unit; and
 
(d)          
the relationship between the landlord and the tenant.
[See Optimal Space Inc. v.
Margana Holdings Inc., 2005 CanLII 14142 (ON SC)]
 
(a)  
Intention of the Parties




 
39.  
There is no dispute
that when they entered into the
tenancy agreement, the intention of both the Landlords and the Tenants was that the rental unit
would be used for residential purposes and that the Act would apply. [See Optimal
Space Inc. v. Margana Holdings Inc., 2005 CanLII 14142 (ON SC),
paras 32-36] The tenancy agreement was for a residential tenancy and the
Landlords concede that the intention was to create a residential tenancy such that the renal unit would be subject
to the Act. I note that the Landlords served multiple notices pursuant
to the Act and commenced multiple applications under the Act.
 
40.   While Mr. McReynolds invited me to do so, there is no
evidence upon which I could reasonably conclude that the intention of the
parties, or either of them, had changed by August 16, 2021 and I find that the intention
of both the Landlords and the Tenants was, and remained, that the rental
unit would be used for residential purposes.
This finding alone is, in my view, sufficient to determine the issue
based on a plain reading of the definition of ‘rental unit’. As noted above, the definition of ‘rental
unit’ is disjunctive and it is sufficient that a rental unit be used or
intended for use as rented residential premises. However, Mr. McReynolds argued that I must consider the other
three factors identified in Optimal Space v. Margana in
determining whether the Act applies and, in case I am wrong in my determination
with respect to the definition of ‘rental unit’ being disjunctive, I will go on
to consider those other factors.
 
(b)  De Facto Use
 
41.   There is no evidence upon which I could reasonably determine that the de facto use of the rental unit by the Tenants was not
residential or, to use the exact words from the Act, as ‘rented residential
premises’.
 
42.   I do not believe that one can consider the de facto
use of rented premises based on a ‘moment in time’ analysis. In other words,
the fact that the Adlers have temporarily stopped living in the rental unit such that the only activity that is
currently being carried on in the rental unit is whatever
limited commercial activity was being carried out before
the Adlers re-located to Dubai does not result in the rental unit ceasing to be
subject to the Act just because the Adlers are no longer living there.
 
43.   There is no evidence upon which I could reasonably find that
any business meetings or commercial
activity took place at the rental unit, or any business on behalf of Eagle
Capital or SkyPower was transacted in or carried out from the rental unit,
after the Adlers relocated to Dubai. There
appears, in fact, to have been more commercial activity carried out from the
rental unit when the Adlers were living there than after they relocated to
Dubai in December of 2020, and the Landlords concede that prior to the Adlers relocating to Dubai the rental unit was subject
to the Act notwithstanding that Mr.
Adler may have been working from the rental unit.
 
44.   Mr. McReynolds argued
that the evidence was that Eagle Capital
‘lends money to other
corporations’ and was a ‘commercial lender’.
That assertion was disputed by the Tenants. Whether or not Eagle Capital was engaged in ‘commercial
lending’, there is no evidence before me that it engaged in any lending
activity from the rental unit.




 
45.  
I
reviewed the pictures
of the computers in the rental unit submitted by the Landlords. It appears to me that Mr. Adler set up a workstation in what appears
to be the dining room or living room of the rental unit so
he could carry on his SkyPower-related work during the COVID lock-down. That workstation appears, based on the
Landlords’ pictures, to be no different than what many Ontarians have set up in
their homes so that they can work from home and participate in Zoom or other
remote meetings.
 
46.  
I reviewed the pictures of the
office in the rental unit submitted by the Landlords. I cannot conclude, based on these pictures, that there is
significant commercial activity being carried
on from the rental unit. The pictures
show a filing cabinet, a few corporate minute books that I am assuming
relate to investments by Eagle Capital and what appears to be a home
scanner/printer. This is not, in my
view, evidence of commercial activity of a type that would result in the rental
unit not being (or ceasing to be)
subject to the Act—i.e. ceasing to be a living
accommodation used or intended for use as rented
residential premises. Keeping
business records in a rental unit does not, in my view, constitute commercial
activity.
 
47.   I reviewed the pictures of the ‘COVID protocol
station’ submitted by the Landlords. While perhaps somewhat
better organized than others
I have seen in private
homes, it does not appear to be
indicative of commercial activity being
carried on from the rental unit. I accept Ms Bellissimo’s evidence under cross-examination that
it was set up:
 
To
ensure the cleanliness of the people who were coming into the home. So, the
people who 24 were coming were myself, housekeepers, nannies, and 25 that’s all. And then for
family who wanted to come in, sanitize their hands, and check their
temperature.
 
48.   I find that, as
at August 15, 2021, the de facto use
of the rental unit was residential.
 
(c)  
Predominate Purpose or Use5
 
49.   The Landlords concede that the fact that commercial
activity is being carried on from a rental unit does not automatically result
in the Act ceasing to apply to that unit, particularly in light of the impact
of the COVID pandemic. They argue
that the Board must look at the predominate purpose or use of the rental unit
to determine if it is residential or commercial. In terms of assessing the predominant purpose or use of the
unit, the Landlords argue that I should do an analysis based on the percentage
of residential versus commercial activity in the rental unit subsequent to December of 2020
when the Adlers stopped living in the unit. I
disagree.
 
50.   I do not believe that I should consider the
predominate purpose or use of the rental unit at a ‘moment in time’. In other
words, the fact that the Adlers have temporarily stopped living in the rental
unit such that the only activity that is
currently being carried
on in the rental unit is whatever limited commercial activity was
being carried out before the Adlers relocated to Dubai does not result in the
rental unit ceasing to be subject to the












5 There is some suggestion in the case law that this
factor is relevant only under paragraph 5(j): see OnTheGoShipping Inc., and Kwok-Wai
Leung, aka Harry
Leung v. G. Khan Medicine
Professional Corporation, 2020
ONSC 2789 (CanLII).




 
Act because the ratio or
residential use to commercial use is 0:100. It
is only, in my view, where the predominate purpose or use of a rental unit that
is used for both residential and commercial purposes is over a period of time commercial that the Act may not (or cease to) apply.
 
51.  
I note that in Optimal Space v.
Margana, there appears to have been evidence produced with respect
to the nature and extent of the
commercial activity that was being carried on from the rental unit. The only evidence before
me with respect to commercial
activity that took place in the rental unit is in the SCJ Evidence, and that
evidence appears to be that the only commercial activity that took place in the
rental unit involved Mr. Adler working
from home for a period as a result of the COVID pandemic and Ms Bellissimo
attending to the paperwork associated with Eagle Capital’s passive investments As noted above, Mr. Minas conceded that he
had no knowledge of what, if any, commercial activity was taking place in the
rental unit.
 
52.   The Landlords agree that the predominate purpose and
use of the rental unit prior to December
of 2020, was residential. I am unable
to conclude, based
on the evidence before me, that the Adlers relocating to Dubai in
December of 2020 resulted in the predominate purpose or use of the rental unit
changing.
 
53.   I find that,
as at August 15, 2021, the predominate purpose and use of the rental unit continued to be residential.
 
(d) 
Relationship Between the Parties
 
54.   This factor appears to have been considered in
circumstances where, as a result of the difference in bargaining power
between a landlord
and a tenant, a tenancy agreement is incorrectly characterized. [See, for example, Sterling
Studio Lofts Incorporated v. Clayton Stel, 2019 ONSC 91 (CanLII)] I do not think that this factor is
relevant in this case. The issue
before me is not what the tenancy agreement provides, but whether the use of
the rental unit has changed as a result of the Tenants relocating to Dubai.
 
55.   The Landlords argued that I should consider as part of
the relationship between the parties the fact that the Landlords would, more
than likely, be successful were they to bring an L2 application based on N12 notice. That may very
well be the case, but I
do not believe that the
fact that the Landlords may be successful on an L2 application is a
relevant factor in determining if the Act applies to the rental unit. As noted above, the Landlords had an L2
application based on an N12 pending at the time they exercised ‘self-help’ and changed the locks to the rental
unit, and that application was scheduled
to be heard by me on October 25, 2021.
 
56.  
The Landlords argued that the
Tenants do not need the protection of the Act. The purposes of the Act include protecting tenants from unlawful
evictions to balance the rights and responsibilities of
residential landlords and tenants and to provide for the adjudication of
disputes between landlords and tenants. [Act, s. 1] In determining whether the
Act is applicable to a rental unit, it
is not, in my view, relevant whether
a particular tenant requires the protection of the Act.




 
 
ii.         Paragraph 5(j)
 
57.   The Landlords assert
that the rental
unit falls under
the exception to the application of the Act identified in paragraph 5(j),
which provides:
 
5 This Act does not apply with
respect to,
 
…
(j) premises occupied
for business or agricultural purposes
with living accommodation attached if the occupancy
for both purposes is under a single lease and the same person occupies the
premises and the living accommodation;
…
 
58.   In my view, paragraph 5(j) is not applicable. That exception to the operation of the Act
applies only where there are residential premises attached to commercial
premises and there is a single lease for both premises. In this case, there are no separate commercial premises to which the rental unit is attached. The situation here is that Mr. Adler, like
many Ontarians, carried on business from the rental unit during the COVID
pandemic. Paragraph 5(j) cannot, in
my view, be interpreted to exclude from the application of the Act rental unit simply because
a tenant carries on some business
from the unit, particularly in circumstances where the tenant is required
to work from home as a result of a pandemic. That
interpretation would leave a large number of tenants in the Province of Ontario
without the protections intended to be afforded to them by the Act.
 
B. T2 Application
 
59.   As noted above, on the T2 application the Tenants are
seeking only an order putting them back into possession of the rental
unit. They are not seeking a
rent abatement for the period they have been locked-out
of the rental unit or other compensation.
 
60.   To obtain a remedy on the T2, the Tenants have the
burden of establishing, on the balance of probabilities, that the Landlords have: (a) entered the rental unit illegally; (b) altered the locking system on a door
giving entry to the rental unit without giving them replacement keys; or (c)
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential. The primary focus of the
Tenants’ argument before me was the assertion that the
Landlords changed the locks
to the rental unit in contravention of section 24 of the Act.
 
i.            
Preliminary Issue
 
61.   The Landlords raised a preliminary issue6 with respect to whether I
should hear and determine the T2 application. They assert that I should dismiss the T2
application as an abuse of process based on the fact that the Tenants have
commenced the SCJ Action.












6 The Landlords raised the issue on their A1
application, but it is, in my view, properly treated as a preliminary objection to the exercise
of my jurisdiction on the
T2 on the basis that the relief requested is that I not hear the T2 application. I do not accept the Landlords’ argument that the Superior Court
should determine whether the Act




 
 
62.   Subsection 168(2) of the Act provides:
 
168 (2) The Board has exclusive jurisdiction to determine
all applications under this Act and with respect to all matters in
which jurisdiction is conferred on it by this Act.
 
Subsection 207(2)
 
63.   The Landlords raised
subsection 207(2) of the Act and suggested that as a result
of that subsection I had no jurisdiction to hear the T2 application.
However, the Landlords provided me with no authority to suggest that the legal
effect of subsection 207(2) was to
deprive me of jurisdiction to hear the T2 application on the basis that the
Tenants have commenced the SCJ Action. I
do not think that the case cited by the Landlords’, Trindade v. Jantzi
[2021 ONSC 1927 (CanLII)] stands for that proposition. In Trindade the Divisional Court
found expressly that ‘a multiplicity of proceedings raising the same issues does not necessarily give rise to abuse of process in all
cases. A finding of abuse of process depends on the
circumstances and context of the case’…and ‘there is no doubt that the Board or
a court should be cautious before finding that it is an abuse of process for a
party to bring an application before the Board even if there are parallel
proceedings before the court.’ [Trindade v. Jantzi,
[2021 ONSC 1927 (CanLII)], paras 27 and 32]
 
64.   In my view, subsection 207(2)
is not applicable in this case. That subsection deals with those
situations where a party wishes to claim an amount in excess of the Board’s
monetary jurisdiction by permitting a landlord or a tenant to initiate
proceedings in the Superior Court to recover an amount in excess of the Board’s
jurisdiction. In those circumstances,
the Superior Court provided concurrent jurisdiction to grant any relief that
could have been granted by the Board. [See
Letestu Estate v. Ritlyn Investments
Limited, 2017 ONCA 442 (CanLII),
paras 5-11 and Kaiman v.
Graham, 2009 ONCA 77 (CanLII), paras 9-16] I do not believe
that it can reasonably be interpreted as, subject the law with respect to my
jurisdiction to prevent abuses of process, taking away the jurisdiction of the
Board to hear applications brought before it by landlords or tenants seeking
relief under the Act where no amount of compensation is requested.
 
Abuse of Process
 
65.   Subsection 23(1) of the SPPA provides that a “tribunal
may make such orders or give such directions in proceedings before it as it
considers proper to prevent abuse of its processes”. This provision gives me jurisdiction to stay or dismiss the T2 application on the basis that it is an abuse of process.
 
66.   The Landlords have requested that I dismiss
the T2 application on the basis that it is an abuse of process for the Tenants,
having commenced the SCJ Action, to seek relief












applies to the rental
unit because the Tenants chose to seek a remedy from the Superior Court by commencing the SCJ Action. That
issue is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Board: see Firm Capital
Management v. Heather Tessier, 2019 ONSC 55 (CanLII).




 
from the Board under the Act. I am not prepared to exercise my
discretion to dismiss the T2. To do
so in the circumstances of this case would, in my view not be consistent with
the Board’s obligation to secure the just, most expeditious and cost-effective
determination of these applications on their merits as required by section 2 of the SPPA.
 
67.   In Maynes v. Allen-Vanguard Technologies Inc.
(Med-Eng Systems Inc.) [2011 ONCA 125
(CanLII)], the Court of Appeal
found that the ‘doctrine of abuse of process seeks to
promote judicial economy and to prevent a multiplicity of proceedings’. The
fact that there are proceedings pending before the Superior Court does not, in
my view, mean that the proceedings before the Board should be stayed or
dismissed. In Birdseye Security
Inc. v. Milosevic [2020 ONCA 355 (CanLII)], the Court of Appeal
emphasized that a multiplicity of proceedings raising the same issues does not
necessarily give rise to abuse of process in all cases. A finding of abuse of process depends on the circumstances and
context of the case and, as a general rule, the Board should be cautious before
finding that it is an abuse of process for a party to bring an application
before the Board even if there are parallel proceedings before the Superior
Court. [Trindade v. Jantzi, 2021 ONSC 1927 (CanLII)] The
Board is meant to be a less expensive and more accessible forum
in which tenants or landlords can assert their rights.
 
68.   The Tenants commenced
the SCJ Action
seeking both to be put back into possession of the rental unit and monetary
compensation that exceeds the Board’s jurisdiction. The Tenants brought a motion in the SCJ Action seeking a
mandatory injunction putting them
back into possession of the rental unit. On
September 13, 2021, the Tenants’ motion was heard by Justice Dow and, on
October 22, 2021, Justice Dow released Reasons for Decision dismissing the
Tenants’ motion. In his Reasons for
Decision, His Honour suggests that the core dispute(s) between the parties
would be resolved by the Board. He
writes:
 
The
defendants' decision to move back in, in my view, provides the best opportunity
for the property to be properly maintained pending disposition of all of the
disputes between the parties before
the Landlord and Tenant Board….. [Adler v.
Minas, 2021 ONSC 6224
(CanLII), para 17]
 
69.   The Landlord relied heavily on the Divisional Court’s
decision in Trindade v. Jantzi. However, in this case, unlike Trindade v. Jantzi: (a)
there is, as a result
of my finding on the A1
application, an ongoing tenancy between
the Landlords and the
Tenants; and (b) there is ‘utility’ to the T2 application in the sense that
it seeks relief under the Act on a matter that is within the specialized
knowledge and experience of the Board and is not being used for an improper
purpose.
 
70.   The Tenants raised
an unreported decision referred to in a text—Peel Housing
Corp. v. Samuels—that
they assert stands for the proposition that proceedings seeking both eviction
and damages in an amount in excess of the Board’s jurisdiction had to be
bifurcated because only the Board could order eviction. I was not provided
with a copy of the case and note that the proposition that the Superior
Court does not have jurisdiction to order eviction appears to be contrary to
section 207(2). The proper approach
is, in my view, to consider whether an abuse of process results from having




 
multiple proceedings before the Board and the Superior
Court and whether
one of those proceedings ought to be stayed or dismissed as a result.
 
71.   While I do not in any way condone what appears at least to be ‘forum
shopping’ by the Tenants, I do not find, based on the
facts of these cases, that the interest of justice would be served by what the
Landlords are requesting. On the T2
application, the Tenants are seeking
to be put back into possession of the rental
unit on the basis that there
has been a breach by the Landlords of section 24 of the Act. Subject to the Landlords’ argument with
respect to my discretion to refuse to grant relief, the relief being requested
by the Tenants on the T2 flows naturally from the uncontested facts and my determination on the Landlords’
A1 application that the rental unit is subject
to the Act.
 
72.   While admittedly the A1 and the T2 applications were
not issued until after Justice Gow heard the Tenants’ motion, there is nothing
in Justice Dow’s Reasons for Decision that indicates to me that His Honour was
contemplating that certain of the landlord-and- tenant disputes between the
parties would be determined by the Superior Court while others would be
determined by the Board. In paragraph
13, Justice Dow alludes at least to the fact that the application of
the Act is among the issues to be
resolved by the Board and it seems to me that if His Honour contemplated that the application of the Act would be determined by the Board and
it stands to reason that the Board would also determine whether there was a
breach of the Act and what, if any, remedy would be provided.
 
73.  
The approach of determining the A1
and then leaving it to the Superior Court to determine the consequences that flow
from that in terms of whether the Tenants should be put back
into possession of the rental unit would not, in my view, result in the just,
most expeditious and least expensive determination of the issues between the
Landlords and the Tenants. Determining
the A1 and then leaving the issue as to whether the Tenants ought to be put
back into possession of the rental unit to be determined by the Superior
Court at some point in the future
would, in my view,
result in the least
expeditious and most expensive determination of the issues
raised on these applications. While
my determination of the T2 is unlikely to end the Landlords’ efforts to evict the Tenants,
it will at least fully resolve the issues that have been put
before me by the parties on the A1
and T2 applications that are before me.
 
74.  
The Tenants have asked for leave to appeal Justice Dow’s order of October 22, 2021. My determination of the T2 application will render that appeal moot, although my order
may result in a different appeal being pursued.
 
75.   Whether, having now obtained relief from the Board on
their T2, the Tenants may proceed with their
claim against the Landlords before
the Superior Court in the SCJ
Action is an issue to be determined by the Superior Court in the SCJ Action.
 
ii.           
Illegal Lock-out
 
76.  
I find that the Landlords have
breached section 24 of the Act by illegally locking the Tenants out of the rental unit. There is no dispute
that: (a) the Landlords changed
the




 
locks of the rental unit; and (b)
they did so without an order from the Board or the consent of the Tenants.   The Landlords’ only viable defence
to the Tenants’ allegations
on the T2 is the assertion that the Act does not apply.
 
77.   The Landlords
assert that the Tenants abandoned
the rental unit.
[See Act, ss. 39 and 79]
The Act is clear, however, that a tenant does not abandon a rental
unit so long as he or she continues to pay rent [Act, s. 2(3)] and the
uncontroverted evidence is that the Tenants were current in terms of paying rent.7 Mr. McReynolds argued
that the Act could be interpreted as not requiring
that a landlord obtain an order to recover possession of a rental unit in
circumstances where a tenant has abandoned the unit. Given the facts, I need
not decide that issue and decline to do so.
 
iii.         
Remedy
 
78.  
The Tenants are requesting that
they be put back into possession of the rental unit. I have considered the facts before me and I am prepared to grant
that relief. The Landlords suggested
that a remedy short of putting the Tenants back in possession of the rental
unit would be appropriate. I disagree
and find that the appropriate remedy is to direct that the Landlords permit the Tenants
to recover possession of the rental
unit.
 
79.   I accept the Tenant’s position that, in the
circumstances, anything short of putting the Tenants’ back into possession of the rental
unit would not provide an adequate remedy for the Landlords’ breach of
section 24 of the Act.       The fact that the tenancy was not
terminated by the Landlords in accordance with the Act means that the Tenants
remain ‘tenants’ and have a lawful right to possession of the rental
unit. [Ottawa-Carleton
Association for Persons with Developmental Disabilities/Open Hands v. Séguin,
2020 ONSC 7405 (CanLII), paras 68 and 69]
 
80.   The Board has jurisdiction under paragraph 31(1)(f)
and subsection 31(3) of the Act, and subsection 23(1) of the SPPA
to put a tenant that has been illegally locked out back into possession of a rental unit [See Ottawa-Carleton Association for
Persons with Developmental Disabilities/Open Hands v. Séguin, 2020
ONSC 7405 (CanLII), paras 68-74] and I am exercising my jurisdiction under
paragraph 31(1)(f) and subsection 31(3) of the Act, and subsection 23(1) of the
SPPA, to order that the Landlords immediately allow the Tenants to recover
possession of the rental unit and provide to the Tenants: (a) keys
to the doors of the rental
unit; and (b) any pass,
access or other codes required for the Tenants to have full and
unfettered access to the rental unit.
 
81.   I note that subsection 31(3) of the Act provides that
the Board may allow a tenant to recover possession of a rental
unit if the Board is satisfied that the unit is vacant. I do not believe
that this proviso
can be interpreted as preventing the Board from allowing a












7 There is an issue with respect to the payment of
utilities, but the utilities that the Tenants are required to pay pursuant to
the tenancy agreement are not ‘rent’ for the purposes of the Act: see CEL-73107-18-RV
(Re), 2018 CanLII 42805 (ON LTB). There
is also the issue of the Tenants’ intention: see SWT-86973-16 (Re), 2016
CanLII 44311 (ON LTB) citing George V Apartments v Cobb, [2002] O.J. No. 5918 (Div Ct)
In this case, the Adlers
left all of their possessions n the rental
unit, Eagle Capital
continued to occupy
the rental unit and Mr. Adler’s express intention was
to return.




 
tenant who has been illegally
locked-out to recover possession of a rental unit in circumstances where the
landlord has moved into the unit. That,
in my view, would be an absurd result.
Subsection 31(3) should,
in my view, be interpreted as prohibiting the Board from allowing a tenant to
recover possession of a rental unit where the unit has been re-leased to a
third-party tenant.
 
82.  
While it is unfortunate that the
Landlords may8 now
find themselves having to locate rental accommodations until one of their pending
application (or a new application) is determined in their favour, the Landlords
are, to a large extent, the authors of their own misfortune. When they exercised ‘self-help’ the Landlords accepted, in my view, the risk
that the Board would determine that the Act applied to the rental unit and that
the Tenants were illegally locked-out.
 
83.   I do not accept the Landlords’ argument that I should
refuse the Tenants’ request for relief on the basis that they do not come
before the Board ‘with clean hands’. I
am exercising statutory discretion and not equitable
(or even common law) jurisdiction [See, for example, TSL-82571-17-IN (Re), 2017
CanLII 60289 (ON LTB) and TST-90503-17
(Re), 2019 CanLII 87012
(ON LTB)] and the ‘clean hands’ doctrine does not, strictly speaking, come into play. I have discretion
under the Act in terms of the remedies
that I may order, but I do not
find the Landlords’ arguments that I should refuse to grant a remedy in this
case based on the Tenants’ actions compelling.
The Landlords’ assertions all relate to the conduct and actions of the
Tenants that are the subject of other applications by the Landlords that are
pending before the Board and will be addressed by the Member(s) hearing those
applications.
 
 
iv.         
Other Grounds for the T2
Application
 
84.   Based on my finding that the Tenants
were illegally locked-out of the rental
unit, I do not need to consider the other grounds identified on the T2
such as whether the Landlords illegally entered the rental unit or
substantially interfered with the Tenants and I decline to do so.
 
IV.         
Costs
 
85.   Rules 23.2
and 23.3 of the Board’s
Rules provide:
23.2        
A member may exercise discretion to order a party to pay another party's:
 
(a)         
representation/preparation fees;
and
 
(b)         
other out-of-pocket expenses.
 
 












8 At the hearing before me the sale of the house in
which the Landlords were living had not yet closed. I cautioned them about closing the transaction because there was
a possibility that I would determine that the Act applied and grant the Tenants a remedy. I also cautioned the Tenants that they might wish to consider
where they would reside on
returning to Toronto because there was also a possibility that I would find
that the Act didn’t apply.




 
Where the LTB orders
a party to pay the representation/preparation fees incurred by another party, these fees shall not
exceed $100 per hour for the services of a paid representative to a maximum of
$700.
 
23.3        
A party
who engages in unreasonable conduct
which causes undue
delay or expense may be
ordered to pay costs to another party.
 
86.   I would like to receive
written submissions from the parties
with respect to costs.
 
87.   The Tenants may provide me with a written submission
of no more than 5 pages plus a bill of costs within 15 days of the issuance
of this order. The Landlords
may provide me with a responding written submission of
no more than 5 pages within 10 days of the delivery of the Tenants’ written
submission. I wish to note for the
benefit of the Landlords that I will not consider any dispute(s) with respect
to the hourly rate(s) or the time spent by the Tenants’ counsel in the absence
of a bill of costs reflecting the hourly rate(s) and the time spent by counsel
to the Landlords.
 
V.          
Conclusion
 
88.   I want to thank counsel
on both sides of this dispute
for their very helpful written
and oral submissions.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.    
Application TNL-31819-21 is withdrawn at the request
of the Landlords.
 
2.    
The Act is applicable to the rental
unit.
 
3.     The Landlords shall immediately allow the Tenants to
recover possession of the rental unit and provide
to the Tenants: (a) keys to the doors of the rental
unit; and (b) any pass, access or other codes required for
the Tenants to have full and unfettered access to the rental unit.
 
4.    
If the Landlords does not allow the Tenants
to recover possession of the unit,
the Tenants may file this
order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the order may be enforced.
 
5.     Upon receipt of this order,
the Enforcement Office is directed
to give possession of the unit to the
Tenants.
 
6.    
A further order will be made with respect to costs.
 
 
 
January 24, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      E. Patrick Shea
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 








Or




 



der Page 18 of
23




 
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East,
Suite 700, 7th Floor
Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
The Part of this order allowing
the Tenants to recover possession of the unit and prohibiting
the Landlords from re-renting the unit to anyone else expires and cannot be
enforced if:
 
a)                 
The Tenants does not file this order on or before February 4, 2022 with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) which has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located, or
 
b)                 
The Tenants files this order with the Court
Enforcement Office but the order
has not been enforced on or
before March 6, 2022




 
Schedule A
 
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
1 The
purposes of this Act are to provide protection for residential tenants from
unlawful rent increases and unlawful
evictions, to establish a framework for the
regulation of residential rents, to
balance the rights and responsibilities of residential landlords and tenants
and to provide for the adjudication of disputes and for other processes to
informally resolve disputes.
2 (1) In this Act,
 
“rental unit” means any living accommodation used or intended
for use as rented residential premises, and “rental unit”
includes,
(a)  
 a site for a mobile home or site on which there is a land lease home used or intended for use as rented residential premises,
and
(b)    
a
room in a boarding house,
rooming house or lodging house and a unit in a care home;
…
 
(3) For the purposes
of this Act, a tenant has not abandoned a rental unit if the tenant is not in arrears of rent.
3 (1)
This Act, except
Part V.1, applies
with respect to rental
units in residential complexes, despite any other Act and despite any agreement or
waiver to the contrary.
 
5 This Act does not apply with respect
to,
 
…
(j) premises occupied for business or
agricultural purposes with living accommodation attached if the occupancy
for both purposes
is under a single lease and the same person occupies the premises and the
living accommodation;
…
 
9 (1) A landlord
or a tenant may apply
to the Board for an order determining,
 
(a)  
 whether this Act or any provision
of it applies to a particular rental
unit or residential complex;
(b)    
any other prescribed matter.
 
(2)  
On the application, the Board
shall make findings
on the issue as prescribed and shall make the appropriate order.




 
24 A landlord shall not alter
the locking system on a door giving
entry to a rental unit or residential complex or cause the locking system
to be altered during the tenant’s occupancy
of the rental unit without
giving the tenant replacement keys.
25 A landlord may enter a rental unit only in accordance with section 26 or 27.
 
29 (1) A tenant or former tenant of a rental
unit may apply to the Board for any of the following orders:
 
…
3.  
An order determining that the
landlord, superintendent or agent of the landlord has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex for all usual
purposes by the tenant or a member of his or her household.
4.  
An order determining that the
landlord, superintendent or agent of the landlord has harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the tenant during the tenant’s
occupancy of the rental unit.
5.  
An order determining that the landlord,
superintendent or agent of the landlord has altered
the locking system on a door giving entry to the rental unit or the residential
complex or caused the locking system to be altered during the tenant’s
occupancy of the rental unit without giving the tenant replacement keys.
6.  
An order determining that the landlord,
superintendent or agent of the landlord has illegally
entered the rental unit.
 
31 (1) If the Board
determines that a landlord, a
superintendent or an agent of a landlord has done one or more of the activities set out in paragraphs 2 to 6 of subsection 29 (1), the Board
may,
 
(a)  
 order that the landlord, superintendent or agent may not engage in any further
activities listed in those paragraphs against any of the tenants in the
residential complex;
(b)    
order that the landlord, superintendent or agent pay a specified sum to the tenant for,
(i)    
the reasonable costs that the tenant
has incurred or will incur in repairing or, where repairing
is not reasonable, replacing property of the tenant that was damaged, destroyed
or disposed of as a result of the landlord, superintendent or agent having
engaged in one or more of the activities listed in those paragraphs, and
(ii)   
other reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses that the tenant has incurred or will incur as a result of the landlord, superintendent or agent having engaged in one or more of the activities listed in those
paragraphs;
(c)    
order an abatement of rent;
(d)    
order that the landlord
pay to the Board an administrative fine not exceeding
the greater of
$10,000 and the monetary
jurisdiction of the Small Claims
Court;
(e)    
order that the tenancy
be terminated;
(f)    
make any other order that it considers appropriate.




 
…
 
(3)  
If the Board determines, in an
application under paragraph 5 of subsection 29
(1), that the landlord,
superintendent or agent of the landlord has altered the locking system on a
door giving entry to the rental unit or the residential complex, or caused the
locking system to be altered, during the tenant’s
occupancy of the rental unit without
giving the tenant replacement keys, and if the Board is satisfied that
the rental unit is vacant, the Board may, in addition to the remedies set
out in subsections (1) and (2), order that the landlord allow the tenant to
recover possession of the rental unit and that the landlord refrain from
renting the unit to anyone else.
 
(4)  
An order under subsection (3) shall have the same effect, and shall be enforced in the same manner, as a writ of possession.
 
(5)  
An order under subsection (3) expires,
 
(a)  
 at the end of the 15th day after
the day it is issued
if it is not filed within those
15 days with the sheriff who has territorial
jurisdiction where the rental unit is located; or
(b)  
 at the end of the 45th day after
the day it is issued
if it is filed in the manner
described in clause (a).
 
37 (1) A tenancy
may be terminated only in accordance with this Act.
 
…
 
(3) A notice of termination need not be given if a landlord
and a tenant have agreed to terminate
a tenancy.
 
39 A landlord shall
not recover possession of a rental
unit subject to a tenancy
unless,
 
(a)    
the tenant has vacated
or abandoned the unit; or
(b)    
an order of the Board evicting
the tenant has authorized the possession.
 
79 If a landlord
believes that a tenant has abandoned a rental unit, the landlord
may apply to the
Board for an order terminating the tenancy.
 
168 (2) The Board has exclusive jurisdiction to determine
all applications under this Act and with respect to all matters in which
jurisdiction is conferred on it by this Act.
 
200 (4) An applicant may withdraw an application after
the hearing begins
with the consent
of the Board.
 
202 (1) In making
findings on an application, the Board shall
ascertain the real substance of all transactions and activities relating to a residential complex or a rental unit and the good faith of
the participants and in doing so,
 
(a)  
 may disregard the outward
form of a transaction or the separate
corporate existence of participants; and




 
(b)  
 may have regard to the pattern
of activities relating
to the residential complex or the rental unit.
 
207 (1)
The Board may, where it otherwise
has the jurisdiction, order the payment
to any given person of an amount of money up to the greater
of $10,000 and the monetary
jurisdiction of the Small Claims Court.
 
(2)  
A person entitled to apply under
this Act but whose claim exceeds the Board’s monetary jurisdiction may commence
a proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction for an order requiring the
payment of that sum and, if such a proceeding is commenced, the court may
exercise any powers that the Board could
have exercised if the
proceeding had been before the Board and within its monetary
jurisdiction.
 
(3)  
If a party makes a claim in an
application for payment of a sum equal to or less than the Board’s monetary
jurisdiction, all rights
of the party in excess of the Board’s monetary
jurisdiction are extinguished once the Board issues its order.
 
 
 
Statutory Powers
Procedures Act
 
2 This Act, and any rule
made by a tribunal under subsection 17.1 (4) or section 25.1, shall be
liberally construed to secure the just, most expeditious and cost-effective determination of every proceeding
on its merits.
 
15 (1) Subject to
subsections (2) and (3), a tribunal may admit as evidence at a hearing, whether or not given or proven under oath or affirmation or admissible as evidence in a court,
 
(a)  
any oral testimony; and
(b)  
any document or other thing,
 
relevant to the subject-matter of the proceeding and may act on such evidence, but the tribunal may exclude anything unduly
repetitious.
 
(2)    
Nothing is admissible in evidence at a hearing,
 
(a)  
that would be inadmissible in a court by reason of any privilege under the
law of evidence; or
(b)  
that is inadmissible by the statute
under which the proceeding arises
or any other statute.
 
23 (1) A tribunal
may make such orders or give such directions in proceedings before it as it
considers proper to prevent abuse of its processes

