Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-31
File number:	
TNL-35264-21

Citation:	Rockport Holdings Limited v Bayramov, 2022 CanLII 83526 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrwwh>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNL-35264-21
 
 



In the
  matter of:


27, 16 NORMARK DRIVE THORNHILL ON L3T3P9


 




Between:


Rockport Holdings Limited


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Sayyah Bayramov
  Sevinj Bayramova


Tenants



 
 
 
Rockport Holdings Limited (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict
Sevinj Bayramova and Sayyah Bayramov (the 'Tenants') because they, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone they permitted in the residential
complex have wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the premises. The
Landlord has also applied for an order requiring the Tenants to compensate the
Landlord for the damage.
 
This application was heard in
Passcode: 956 0593 7653# on January 20, 2022.
The Landlord’s representative Leo Corsetti
and the Tenants, assisted by their daughter,
Lala Bayramli, attended the hearing. Also in attendance as witnesses for the
Landlord were General Manager Moises Brunstein, Property Manager Therese Leahy,
and the Landlord’s plumber Macello Chiazavarlai, who testified at the hearing.
 
The parties agree the tenancy has been terminated and the Tenants
have vacated the rental unit. The issue for the Board to decide is
whether the Tenants caused damage to the rental unit and residential complex,
and if so, what compensation should the Board order the Tenants to pay.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     There is no dispute there was a water leak in the Tenants rental
unit which caused damage to the Tenants’ unit and to
the unit below.
 
2.    
The Landlord introduced receipts
for the cost of the repairs which are close
to
$22,000.00. The Landlord’s application requests approximately half this cost.
 
3.     The Landlord received
a call from the Tenants
indicating there was leak in their unit. The
Landlord’s General Manager and maintenance worker attended and based on their
experience believe the leak must have been occurring for at least six months. The evidence shows that the Tenants were
asked why they did not inform
the Landlord. The response was that
they didn’t know how to report a work order.




 
 
 
4.     The evidence further shows that all tenants, including
these Tenants, received an email on June 1, 2021 advising
how to contact the Landlord
about their work orders. This was
also communicated to all tenants in October 2019.
 
5.     The Tenants had resided in the rental unit since 2018. The Tenants written response to the Landlord
about the damage was that the damage was caused
by the previous tenant. This
would have been three years earlier.
 
6.     The letter states
that they moved in assuming
everything was renovated and in good condition and that they didn’t know
it was poor quality.
 
7.    
The Tenants testified that when
they moved in everything was painted. They
claim the bathtub, sink, refrigerator, walls and carpet were all painted. When asked to clarify, they confirmed that the carpet was
painted. The Landlord was asked about
this testified that the practice is to steam clean the carpets and they would
never paint them.
 
8.     The Landlord’s photographs show a unit that has not
been well maintained. Based on the
evidence from the Tenants including wen they wrote that they believed the unit
had been renovated when they moved into the unit, it would seem reasonable to
conclude that it was not in such a poor condition as shown in the photographs
at the time the Landlord responded to the leak. The photographs show that the bathtub has exposed areas that
have corrosion which could only occur over time. This was not reported to the Landlord. The Landlord testified
that this was likely due to corrosive
products or dropping items that would damage the
finish.
 
9.     Photographs show there
are stains on the carpets,
a missing light
fixture, damaged walls, stove, doors, a broken light
switch, damaged floor tiles, and removed kitchen cabinet doors.
 
10.  Considering the extent of damage that is not
associated with the water leak, I find the Tenants caused excessive damage to
the unit that is beyond normal wear and tear.
It is clear that this damage was not caused
by a former tenant as suggested by the Tenants
in their letter to the Landlord.
 
11.  The testimony from the plumber is that he noticed that
the floor in the bathroom was spongy when he walked into the room. He testified
that it was obvious that there had been a leak for quite some time.
 
12.  Considering how long the Tenants have lived in the
unit, the condition of the unit, the water stains and water damage to doors and
floors, and the fact the Landlord provided evidence all tenants were provided information on how to report a maintenance concern, as well as the fact the Tenants
called about the leak and the Landlord responded immediately, I find the
Tenants were wilful or negligent in not reporting the leak to the Landlord in a
timely manner. As a result, the
Landlord has incurred costs of close to
$22,000.00 to repair the damage and replace property
that was damaged
and cannot be reasonably repaired.




 
13.  In determining the amount the Tenants should be
responsible to pay for the damage, I have taken into consideration the fact the
Landlord reduced that amount by approximately half in acknowledgement that there would
have been costs associated with the leak, even if the Tenants had
informed them in a timely manner. I
have also considered the clear damage to the unit that demonstrates neglect and
a lack of concern for the Landlord’s property.
Therefore, I find that the amount requested by is fair and should be
awarded for the cost to repair the damage.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Tenants shall pay to the Landlord
$10,822.80, which represents the reasonable costs
of repairing the damage and replacing the damaged property.
 
2.     The Tenants shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing
the application.
 
3.     If the Tenants do not pay the Landlord the full amount
owing on or before February 11, 2022, they will start to owe interest.
This will be simple interest
calculated from February 12, 2022 at 2.00% annually on
the balance outstanding.
 












January 31, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Greg Joy
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East, Suite 700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

