Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-14
File number:	
TNL-35609-21

Citation:	Lu v Saydi, 2022 CanLII 118678 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jthqc>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 77
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNL-35609-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


41 HOLCOLM ROAD NORTH YORK ON M2N2C8


 




Between:


Junli Lu


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Hippolyte Joadyn Saydi Patterson Marvin
Sheldon


Tenants



 
 
Junli Lu (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Hippolyte Joadyn Saydi and Patterson Marvin Sheldon (the 'Tenants')
because the Tenants entered into an agreement to terminate the tenancy.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on February 3, 2022.
 
The Landlord and the Tenants attended
the hearing. The Landlord was represented by Jung Tao.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
This application was filed
pursuant to section 77 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act'). Applications of this nature normally result in the Board issuing an
eviction order without a hearing. However, this application was sent to a
hearing as the N11 agreement submitted by the Landlord
was signed by only one of the two Tenants
named on the Landlord’s application.
 
2.    
The Landlord’s L3 application was filed on October 28, 2021 and was based
on a N11 Agreement to terminate the tenancy which was signed by the
Landlord and the first- named Tenant on September 6, 2021 with a termination
date of October 31, 2021.
 
3.    
The lease agreement submitted by
the Landlord shows the tenancy began on June 1, 2021, on a month-to-month
basis, naming both Hippolyte Joadyn Saydi and Patterson Marvin Sheldon
as the Tenants. The lawful
monthly rent was $1,140.00 and was due on
the first of the month. The lease is signed by both Tenants and the Landlord. I
note that while the lease
states otherwise, the Landlord’s evidence
was the Tenants reside in unit #1 and not the entire house.
 
4.     The first-named Tenant testified that the second-named
Tenant is her fiancé who is currently incarcerated and not present
at the hearing; as such, she is here on his behalf as well. She testified that he did
not sign the agreement to terminate the tenancy and denies signing it herself
because she had concerns surrounding its legitimacy.




 
5.    
The Landlord testified that the
second-named Tenant told her he had moved in August 2021. Then the Landlord’s evidence changed to being notified
by the first-named Tenant on
September 5, 2021 advising that the second-named Tenant had moved out of the
rental unit. The Landlord testified that the first-named Tenant signed the N11
at 9:30pm on September 6, 2021 as she was present at the time it was signed,
and she had a 10- minute conversation with the Tenant after its signing.
 
Landlord’s Adjournment Request
 
6.     The Landlord’s representative proceeded to request and
adjournment so that further evidence could be gathered on this issue and so
that the Landlord could obtain an interpreter
since I indicated to her that her legal representative could not interpret
and be her legal
representative at the same time.
 
7.    
The Tenant opposed the adjournment request
as she had taken time off from her new job
to attend the hearing; further, she submits that the Landlord should have been
prepared.
 
8.    
The Landlord’s request for an adjournment
was denied as the issue was communicated to the parties via a direction issued
December 17, 2021. I held the matter down for the Landlord to find a family member
or friend to assist in interpretation, but the Landlord
was not successful in doing so. The Landlord, then, indicated she was
certain she could proceed in the absence of an interpreter, so I continued to
hear the matter.
 
ANALYSIS
 
9.     Based on the evidence before the Board,
I find that Patterson Marvin
Sheldon (PMS) was a Tenant of this tenancy since June 1,
2021 – this is undisputed by the parties.
 
10.  With respect to
the issue of when and whether the PMS moved
out, I find the evidence of the
first-named Tenant to be more persuasive as it remained the same – the Tenant
did not move out of the rental unit but he was incarcerated. I say this because
the Landlord’s evidence initially was that the second-named Tenant moved out
August 2021 but later that changed to September 5, 2021 based on a text she
received from the first-named Tenant. A copy of this text was not submitted
into evidence in support of this assertion. I find the first-named Tenant was
in the best position to know whether the second-named Tenant lived with her or not. As such, I find that Patterson
Marvin Sheldon is still a Tenant
of the rental unit.
 
11.  Subsection 77(1)(a) of the Act provides that a tenancy
may be terminated where “the landlord and tenant have entered into an agreement
to terminate the tenancy.” The subsection is silent
on whether, where
there are several
joint tenants, an agreement with only one of them is sufficient to
terminate the tenancy.
 
12.  The interpretation of subsection 77(1)(a)
in a joint tenancy is not settled
law. However, in a number of recent decisions, the Board
has found that to terminate a joint tenancy, all the tenants as well as the
landlord must agree to the termination. In
my view, that is the correct approach. This
tenancy was formed by a three-party agreement between HJS, PMS and the
Landlord. The agreement of all three
parties would also be required to




 
dissolve it. To hold otherwise would
be to effectively permit
HJS and the Landlord to evict
PMS without notice, without any grounds, and without his consent.
 
13.  At common law, which governed
tenants before any legislation was enacted, there
was a general principle that
“any legal act, including a surrender of the lease requires the participation
of all the joint tenants; one cannot dispose of it by himself, for he by
himself has not the whole estate in it” (see: Soucy v. Milton Heights Inc., 2015
SKQB 126).
 
14.  In my view, the Legislature intended that the general
common-law principle, that a joint tenancy cannot be surrendered without the
consent of all the tenants, would apply to tenancies under the Act. There
is nothing to suggest otherwise, and sections 37 and 38 are intended to strictly limit the ways
in which a tenancy can be terminated.
 
15. 
Here, as the
applicant, the Landlord has the onus to establish, on a balance of
probabilities, that there was an agreement to terminate the tenancy October
31, 2021 by all parties. I find the Landlord has
failed to do so. As such, the Landlord’s L3 application must be dismissed.
 
16. 
This order contains all of the reasons for my decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
 
February 14, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Sonia Anwar-Ali
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East, Suite 700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
.

