Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-10
File number:	
TNL-33674-21

Citation:	Shani v Belaia, 2022 CanLII 52388 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpv0b>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNL-33674-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


ROOM #1, 178
MAPLEHURST AVENUE NORTH
  YORK ON M2N3B9


 




Between:


Michael Shani


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Polina
Belaia


Tenant



 
 
Michael Shani (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Polina Belaia (the 'Tenant') because the
Landlord intends to demolish the rental unit.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on December 20, 2021.
 
The Landlord
and the Tenant
attended the hearing. The Tenant spoke with Duty Counsel
prior to the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The rental unit is a
single-family home that contains 5 rented bedrooms and shared facilities amongst
the tenants. The Tenant rents
a room in the house
and has resided there since October 2020.
 
2.    
The Landlord provided
the Tenant with an N13 Notice of Termination advising that they require the rental unit to be vacated in order to demolish the rental unit. The Landlord and his wife Shanta Shani (‘SS’)
testified that the City of Toronto does not permit rooming houses in the area
the house is located and that they have received a Notice of Violation dated
June 25, 2021 requiring them to cease running a rooming house and to return the
house to a single family dwelling. (Exhibit 1)
 
3.    
Section 50 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, (the ‘Act’) permits
a Landlord to give a notice of termination of a tenancy if
the landlord requires possession of the rental unit in order to demolish it.
 
4.    
In the Notice of Termination
served on the Tenant, the Landlord
stated that no work is intended to be carried out in the
rental unit or in the residential complex.
 
5.    
SS testified that no
work will be performed in the rental unit or in the residential complex and therefore
no permits are required; as the rental
unit is a bedroom within
the house, it will remain the same and be rented as
is. SS testified that all of the other tenants in the




 
house have either vacated
or signed N11 Forms to vacate the rental unit in the spring of 2022.
 
6.    
The Landlord and SS
confirmed that no renovation, repair or demolition work will take place in the
rental unit or in the residential complex, but they served the Notice of
Termination in order to remove
all tenants and bring
the house within
the City’s zoning by-laws.
 
7.    
The Tenant testified
that there is no demolition taking place and she should not be evicted from her home. In the alternative, she states
that she could or should be offered the opportunity to rent the entire house as a “single family residence” and remain in
the house. The Tenant disputed that the other Tenants were leaving the rental
unit in February and stated that she was not offered the same amount of time to
vacate her rental unit.
 
Analysis
 
8.    
In order for a landlord
to be successful in an application under s. 50 of the Act, the Landlord must
prove on a balance of probabilities that the work they are proposing to carry out in the rental unit or residential complex meets the requirement of “demolition”
pursuant to the Act.
 
9.    
The Landlord and SS
gave clear and consistent evidence that they do not intend to demolish the
rental unit or the residential complex. They testified that they served the
Tenant with an N13 Notice of Termination and filed their L2 application as they
were advised that it was the proper process
and that their situation “fell within the exemption” for demolition. They advised
that as they were unfamiliar with the Act, they could not advise what
“exemption” they were referring to.
 
10.  The Act does not define the term “demolish”. The
general principles of statutory interpretation direct that words should be
given their ordinary or plain meaning. On this basis, I find that the ordinary
meaning of the word demolish is to destroy or completely remove. The word demolish
is defined by the Canadian
Oxford Dictionary to mean to “pull down, completely destroy or break.”
This suggests that to demolish something is the irrevocable action of
destroying it. In applying this to section 50 of the Act, I find that the
Landlord would be required to intend in good faith to destroy or completely
remove the
Tenant’s rental
unit.
 
11.  On the basis of the evidence before the
Board, I am not satisfied that the Landlord intends to demolish the rental unit
or residential complex; on the basis of the evidence before the Board
the Landlord does not intend
to alter the rental unit in any way.
Rather the intention stated was to vacate
the unit so it may be re-rented
as is as a single family home. This does not constitute
demolition.
 
12.  Pursuant
to my direction in the hearing, the Landlord filed
emails received from the City directing him to cease running a
rooming house and that advised compliance with the
City’s By-laws
was required. The emails from the City require the house to be returned to a
single family home within 90 days of the date of their order. The Landlord
takes the position that this requires the Board to terminate the tenancy, as he believes
the Notice of




 
Violation “requires” him to “demolish” the unit or to “convert it to another
use”. I disagree. I do not
find that the City issued a demolition order that “required” the demolition of
the rental unit. I find that the City By-law infraction Notice required the
Landlord to cease running a rooming house.
 
13.  Further, in response to the Landlord’s
alternative argument, I do not find that to rent the house out as a single
family home constitutes “conversion to another use”. Whether rented out as a rooming house or a single family home,
it is a living accommodation used or intended for use as a
residential premises. Subsection 50(a)(b) of the Act states that a landlord may give notice of termination of a tenancy
if the landlord requires possession of the rental unit in order to, convert it to use for a purpose
other than residential premises.
 
14.  Based on the evidence before
the Board, I find that the Landlord
has failed to meet
the burden of proof to establish
that he intends
to demolish the rental unit or
convert it to a use for a purpose other than
residential premises. As such, I find that the Notice of Termination is void as
the Landlord’s intended actions do not constitute demolition or conversion and
therefore does not entitle him to terminate the tenancy under the Act.
 
15.  As the Landlord
did not serve
a valid Notice
of Termination the application must be
dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Landlord’s application is dismissed.












January 10, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Nicola Mulima
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite
700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

