Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-07
File number:	
TNL-36369-21

Citation:	Zuidersma v Duke, 2022 CanLII 122598 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp37>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNL-36369-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


2, 94 CROWLAND AVENUE WELLAND ON L381W9


 




Between:


Mark Zuidersma


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Beverly Duke Joseph
Plamondon


Tenants



 
 
 
Mark Zuidersma (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Joseph Plamondon and Beverly
Duke (the 'Tenants') because the Landlord has entered into an agreement of purchase and sale of the rental
unit and the purchaser requires possession of the rental unit for
the purpose of residential occupation.
 
This application was heard by
videoconference on January
20, 2022 at 11:17
AM.
 
The Landlord and the Tenants attended
the hearing. The Landlord was represented by Josh
McDougall, the Tenants represented by Mandip Grewal.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
For the reasons set out below, I find the Landlord
has entered into an agreement of purchase and sale to sell the residential complex,
but that the Landlord has failed to prove that the purchasers in good faith requires
possession of the rental unit for
the purpose of residential occupation.
 
2.    
On September 27, 2021, the
Landlords served the Tenants with an N12 notice of termination seeking
termination of the tenancy for the purpose
of residential occupation by a purchaser. The termination
date set out in the N12 notice is November 30, 2021. The tenancy is
month-to-month with rent payable on the first day of each month, therefore the
termination date was at the end of a rental period.
 
3.    
The Landlord paid the Tenants compensation equal to one month's rent prior to the
termination date, on November 15, 2021.
 
Defect in application – section
71.1




 
4.    
The Tenants’ representative raised
a preliminary issue
that the Landlord’s L2 application was
defective for failing to comply with the requirements of subsection 71.1(3) of
the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the “Act”), which reads as follows:
 
(3)  
A landlord who, on or after the
day subsection 11 (2) of Schedule 4 to the Protecting Tenants and Strengthening Community Housing Act, 2020 comes into
force, files an application under
section 69 based
on a notice of termination given under section 48, 49 or 50 shall, in the application,
 
(a)    
indicate whether or not the
landlord has, within two years prior to filing the application, given any other notice
under section 48, 49 or 50 in respect
of the same or a different rental unit; and
 
(b)    
set out, with respect
to each previous
notice described in clause (a),
 
(i)    
the date the notice
was given,
 
(ii)    
the address of the rental unit in respect
of which the notice was given,
 
(iii)    
the identity of the intended
occupant in respect of whom the notice was given
if the notice was given
under section 48 or 49, and
 
(iv)    
such other information as may be required by the Rules.
 
5.     The Landlord’s application was filed on October 25,
2021, after the preceding section came into force on September 1, 2021, and
under “Part C” (where the requisite information must be disclosed by the applicant), disclosed only an N12 served on Unit 1 in the same residential complex on
September 22, 2021.
 
6.     The Tenants’ evidence (which was uncontested by the
Landlord) was that the Landlord had on or about July 27, 2021 served N12
notices of termination on both units in the residential complex, which were
brought before this Board as L2 applications SOL- 23763-21 and SOL-23766-21, both applications being
dismissed as abandoned by orders dated
November 9, 2021. Neither notice was
disclosed on the application.
 
7.     The Landlord’s representative noted that both notices of July 2021 were defective as they
mis-identified the units, and therefore not valid notices. His position was that only valid notices
must be disclosed. I do not agree
with the Landlord’s interpretation the Act. Subsection 71.1(3)(a) mandates disclosure of whether “the landlord has, within two years prior to filing the
application, given any other notice under section 48, 49 or 50.” There is no qualifying language that the
disclosed notices must be “valid” notices. Given
that the apparent intention of this statutory amendment is to allow both
tenants and the Board to observe a pattern in a landlord’s conduct of using N12
and N13 notices, I believe that the disclosure
of all N12 and N13 notices, valid
or not, is the legislative intent of the provision.
This legislative intent
is underscored by the
contemporaneous proclamation of subsection
72(3) of the Act, which expressly contemplates that “the Board may consider any




 
evidence the Board considers relevant that relates
to the landlord’s or purchaser’s previous use of notices of
termination under section 48, 49 or 50.”
 
8.     The Landlord did testify that no other N12 notices,
other than those described above, have been served in the two years preceding the application. I have no reason to doubt
this testimony.
 
9.    
The Act does not provide a clear consequence
for a landlord’s failure to meet their disclosure obligation under subsection
71.1(3). Subsection 71.1(4) provides
that “The Board shall refuse to
accept the application for filing if the landlord has not complied with subsection (3)”, but
does not expressly address what happens when the Landlord has completed the appropriate section
of the application, but has omitted one or more N12 or N13 notices. The position of the Tenant’s representative is that the
application ought to be dismissed based on the defect.
 
10.  While I would accept that, in certain circumstances,
the appropriate result for non- compliance with subsection 71.1(3) might be the
dismissal of the application, in the current instance I am satisfied that the
Tenants in fact had actual notice of the previous N12 notices. One was served upon them, the other on
their neighbour. From a procedural
fairness standpoint, the Tenants in this application are not
prejudiced, as they had full knowledge of the Landlord’s service of prior N12 notices They are not prejudiced
in their ability to investigate any patterns in the Landlord’s use of N12 or
N13 notices of termination, nor are they prejudiced in their ability to bring
any such findings before the Board should they wish to argue, under subsection
72(3) of the Act, that the pattern undermines the professed good faith of the
notice of termination.
 
11.  I therefore reject
the Tenant’s motion to dismiss the application for non-compliance with subsection 71.1(3).
 
Good Faith
 
12.  The N12 was served pursuant to section 49 of the Act.
Section 49(1) requires that, in order to be successful in this application, the Landlords must establish that at the time
of the service of the N12 Notice, a purchaser required, in good faith,
the unit for residential use.
 
13.  In Feeney v. Noble, 1994 CanLII 10538 (ON SC),
the Court held that the test of good faith is genuine intention to occupy the
premises and not the reasonableness of the Landlord’s proposal. This principle was upheld in Salter v.
Beljinac 2001 CanLII 40231 (ON SCDC) where the Court held that the “good
faith” requirement simply means that the Landlord
sincerely intends to occupy the rental unit. The Landlord may also have
additional motives for selecting a particular rental unit, but this does not
affect the good faith of the Landlord’s notice.”
 
14.  The Landlord entered
into an agreement of purchase
and sale dated July 21, 2021, with Jacob Miner and Ethan
Miner as the purchasers, with a closing
date of October
5, 2021. At the date of the
hearing, the Landlord indicated that the closing date had been extended to
February 28, 2022.




 
 
 
15.  Jacob Miner and Ethan Miner each signed a declaration
which was filed with the application confirming that they require
the rental unit for his residential use and that they
intend to reside at 94 Crowland Avenue. Neither
purchaser attended the hearing.
 
16.  In accordance with the decision
of Ontario Divisional Court in Melhuish v. 580472 Ontario Ltd., 2002 CanLII 6256 (ON
SCDC) (“Melhuish”) there is no express or implicit requirement that the
purchaser in a contested application give oral testimony at a Board hearing,
although the tenant is free to
summons the purchasers for cross-examination on the affidavit. Accordingly, the non-attendance of the
purchasers cannot by itself be fatal
to the Landlord’s application.
 
17.  But as noted to the Landlord’s representative at the hearing,
the purchasers’ declaration can only stand as evidence for
what it actually says. Put another
way: should other issues arise at the hearing that might bring into question
the purchasers’ genuine intention to occupy, the lack of oral testimony from
the purchaser respecting their intentions may
result in the Landlord failing
to establish, on the balance
of probabilities, that the purchasers do indeed have a good faith intention to
occupy the rental unit.
 
18.  The agreement of purchase and sale on its face is problematic. The term addressing the tenancies in Schedule A reads as follows:
 
The
Buyer hereby authorizes and directs the Seller, and the Seller agrees, when this Agreement becomes unconditional, to
give to the tenants the requisite notices under the Residential Tenancies
Act, requiring vacant
possession of the property for use by the Buyer or the buyer's
immediate family, effective as of October 1, 2021, and the seller agrees to
deliver copies of the requisite notices to the Buyer immediately after service
of the notices upon the tenant. The Buyer and Seller hereby agree that in
the event the Tenant fails to vacate the property, prior to completion of this
transaction, the Buyer will have the sole option to either extend the closing date to allow for vacant
possession or assume the tenants, Unless otherwise agreed
between the Buyer and Seller, the Seller shall not negotiate or extend any
leases on this property. (emphasis added)
 
19.  In the event that the Tenants do not vacate, the
natural and plain language course created by the contract is either to extend
the closing date indefinitely, or assume the tenancy. That the contract contemplates the possibility of assumption of
the tenancies, and expressly does not give the
purchasers the right to terminate
the agreement if vacant possession is not obtained, on its
face raises significant questions about the intentions of the purchasers. It is a reasonable conclusion that that
the agreement of purchase and sale contemplates the possibility of the tenancy
continuing. Given the lack of the
purchasers’ oral testimony on this issue, there is some degree of uncertainty
respecting
the purchaser’s genuine intention.
 
20.  The Tenants and their representative also noted that
the current arrangement of the residential complex is two physically separate rental units,
and were curious
how the two purchasers might occupy the space.




 
 
 
21.  The Landlord’s testimony, which appeared to be an amalgam of hearsay and speculation,
was that each purchaser might occupy a separate unit, or else they might remove
the physical partitions within the residential complex to make it a single
dwelling.
 
22.  The Landlord’s assertions respecting the possible
methods the purchasers may occupy
the units are of course mutually
exclusive of one another, and are not supported by the purchasers’
declarations, which simply state of their intentions, “It is my intention to
personally reside at 94 Crowland
Avenue, Welland, Ontario,
L3B 1W9 for a period
of no less than twelve (12)
months.”
 
23.  The declarations therefore must stand alone as
evidence of the purchasers’ intention. The weakness of the declarations,
together with the purchasers’ decision not to participate in the hearing,
makes it unclear
whether they in fact wish to occupy
one unit
apiece, the entire residential
complex, or live together in one unit. Not
knowing which is their intention makes
it impossible for me to ascertain their genuine intention in relation to this rental unit.
 
24.  Based on the evidence and testimony before me, I
cannot make a finding on a balance of probabilities of the actual
intention of the purchasers in relation to the residential complex, other than that they wish to purchase it and have
signed an agreement to do so. The
evidence does not establish that they in good faith require the rental unit for
their own use.
 
Return of compensation
 
25.  Under section 73.1 of the Act,
the Board may order the return of compensation paid to a Tenant
if the Board refuses to grant an eviction order
but where compensation has been given under
section 49.1. I find that the
Landlord is entitled to the return of the compensation paid to the Tenants.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord's application is dismissed.
 
2.     The Tenant shall pay to the Landlords the amount equal to one month’s rent, which was given by
the Landlords in satisfaction of the required compensation under s. 49.1.
 
 








 
Ian Speers




 


February 7, 2022 Date Issued
Vice Chair,
Landlord and Tenant
Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East,
Suite 700, 7th Floor
Toronto ON M2N5X5




 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

