Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-07
File number:	
TNL-36277-21

Citation:	Mitsopoulos v Antchipalovski, 2022 CanLII 122582 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp36>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNL-36277-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


3, 168 ELDER STREET TORONTO ON M3H5H1


 




Between:


Athena Mitsopoulos


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Boris Antchipalovski


Tenant



 
 
 
Athena Mitsopoulos (the
'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Boris
Antchipalovski (the 'Tenant') because the Landlord has entered into an
agreement of purchase and sale of the rental
unit and the purchaser
requires possession of the rental
unit for the purpose
of residential occupation.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on January 6th, 2022.
 
The Landlord’s
son Tony Mitsopoulos, as well as the Landlord’s representative Gregory
Andreopoulos attended on behalf of the Landlord.
The Tenant appeared
on his own behalf.
.
Application
 
1.    The residential complex
owned by the Landlord in question contains
3 separate units.
The Tenant lives in unit #3. The Tenant has been living in this unit
since 1998, and the lease has been month to month since that year.
 
2.   
The Landlord has filed an L2
application based on an N12 notice to evict the Tenant on behalf of the
purchasers of the property, Ayse Karasan and Salih Mesut Kaya so that the purchaser’s
immediate family could move into the unit while the purchasers intend on moving into unit #2. The affidavit
of Ayse Karasan
that was filed
with the application did not
note the names or relations of the immediate family who intend on moving into the
unit. I note that the purchasers never attended the hearing.
 
3.    When the Landlord’s son was questioned as to who the immediate family of the purchaser was that would be moving into
the Tenant’s unit, the Landlord’s testified that it was the purchaser’s parents
would be moving in. The Landlord did not know the names of these individuals.
 
4.   
The Landlord’s
son testified that an Agreement of Purchase in Sale was entered into last year with a closing
date of December 18th, 2021, which has been extended
for the purpose




 
of this hearing
and the hearing for the other unit
(#2). I note that the agreement of purchase of sale was never provided to the
Tenant, nor was it filed with the Board.
 
5.    The Landlord provided
further evidence that compensation was paid to the Tenant
in the amount of $1105.02.
The cheque was received by the Tenant however, the Tenant testified that it was
never cashed.
 
6.    I further note that Schedule
“B” of the application includes
the disclosure of an N12 for unit #2 from November 22nd,
2019 however, the Landlord erroneously listed the current tenant of
that unit, rather than the intended occupant of that unit. I note that that
matter was withdrawn.
 
Tenant’s Evidence
 
7.   
The Tenant submitted that the application should be dismissed
because he was never told who
the purchaser was, nor was he ever provided a copy of the Agreement
of Purchase of Sale.
 
8.    He submitted that because the agreement was never
provided to him or submitted as evidence to the Board that there is no evidence
for me to rely on to suggest
that the deal is
closed.
 
9.    The Tenant took further issue with Mr. Gregory
Andreopolous, who is the Landlord’s realtor with drafting
the notice and applications and appearing on behalf of the Landlord’s without being a licensee with
the Law Society of Ontario.
 
10.
The Tenant
also testified that he did not cash the cheque
he received for compensation
and as such, the N12 notice is not valid.
 
Determinations:
 
11. I find that the evidence
provided by the Landlord’s son was not sufficient with respect to
this application. The Purchaser’s declaration that their
immediate family is to move into
the Tenant’s unit does not satisfy me on a balance of
probabilities that s. 49 of the Residential
Tenancies Act has been complied with. Section 49 requires that the
purchaser in good faith requires possession of the residential complex or unit
for the purpose of residential occupation.
 
12.
While Landlord’s son has provided evidence
that the individuals who intend to move into
the Tenant’s unit are the purchaser’s parents,
I have been provided no names or any other evidence to support that declaration. Further,
the Landlord’s son’s
evidence with respect
to this information is hearsay and unreliable.
 
13. The Landlords never filed the Agreement of Purchase of Sale. When questioned about this the
Landlord’s realtor advised that he didn’t
think he had to. While that
might be the case, I still find a
negative inference due to the lack of the agreement of purchase and sale not




 
being submitted
as evidence. I find that the lack of this information provided
does not support the
Landlord’s application that there is a firm deal in place.
 
14.
As such, on a balance of probabilities I do not find that the Landlord’s application and
evidence provided is sufficient to support eviction of this Tenant.
 
15.
Having dismissed the application based
on the above, I will not address
the Tenant’s argument about
representation.
It is ordered that:
 
16.
The Tenant
shall return the uncashed cheque to
the Landlord, or if it has been
cashed, shall repay the Landlord compensation in the amount of $1105.02.
 
17. The Landlord's application is dismissed.
 
 
February 7th, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Jagger Benham
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite
700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

