Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-31
File number:	
TNL-36381-21

Citation:	Danigelis v Rosacia, 2022 CanLII 83418 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrwwp>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNL-36381-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


3, 10 STADACONA DRIVE E TORONTO ON
  M6A1Y6


 




Between:


Gus Danigelis


Landlord




 


 
And


 




 


Venus Rosacia


Tenant



 
 
 
Gus Danigelis (the 'Landlord')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Venus Rosacia (the
'Tenant') because the Landlord requires possession of the rental unit for the
purpose of residential occupation. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the
Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on January 20, 2022 at 9:39 AM.
 
The Landlord and the Tenant attended
the hearing. The Landlord was represented by Joshua
Lindzon. The Tenant consulted with
Tenant Duty Counsel prior to the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     For the reasons set out below, I find that the
Landlords in good faith require possession of the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation for a period of at least
one year. Therefore, the
tenancy is terminated effective February 2, 2022.
 
2.    
On October 13, 2021,
the Landlords served
the Tenants with an N12 notice of termination
seeking termination of the tenancy for the purpose of residential occupation by
the Landlord. The termination date set out in the N12 notice is December 31,
2021.
 
3.     The Landlord paid the Tenant
compensation equal to one month's
rent on October 14, 2022.
 
4.     The N12 was served pursuant
to section 48 of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the “Act”). Section 48(1) requires that,
in order to be successful in this application, the Landlord must establish that at the time of the service
of the N12 Notice, he required, in good faith, the unit for residential
use.
 
5.     In Feeney v. Noble,
1994 CanLII 10538 (ON SC), the Court held that the test of good faith is genuine intention to occupy
the premises and not the reasonableness of the




 
Landlord’s proposal. This principle was upheld in Salter v.
Beljinac 2001 CanLII 40231 (ON SCDC) where
the Court held that
the “good faith” requirement simply
means that the Landlord sincerely intends to occupy
the rental unit. The Landlord may also have additional motives for selecting a
particular rental unit, but this does not affect the good
faith of the Landlord’s notice.”
 
6.     The Landlords submitted an affidavit with his
application that he in good faith requires possession of the rental unit for
the purpose of residential occupation for a period of at least one year. As the Tenant conceded that she has
already largely moved out of the rental unit,
the point is largely moot and was not substantively challenged. I do find that, as at the hearing date, the Tenant
still had possession of the unit, and in consequence the Landlord is entitled
to rent on a daily basis for every day that
the Tenant continues to occupy
the rental unit after the termination date on the notice of termination.
 
Relief from eviction
 
7.     I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would be
unfair to grant relief from eviction
pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the Act. As
the Tenant has, by her own admission, effectively moved out of the rental unit
and is residing elsewhere, I see no need to grant any relief. As the Tenant has effectively vacated the
unit, I have abbreviated the termination date from the usual 11-day order
issued by the Board.
 
Compensation for undue damage
 
8.     The Landlord’s L2 application also claimed $3,500.00
for his reasonable out-of-pocket expenses for undue damage to the rental unit
wilfully or negligently caused by the Tenant,
another occupant, or guest. The application
claims damage to a bathtub,
walls, and kitchen tiles, described on the application as follows:
 
Tenant ruined the bathtub,
and as a result, Landlord
was forced to hire Bath Fitters
to instal an acrylic fitted cover.
 
Tenant caused damage to common area walls and railings that will require
a paint restoration.
 
Tenant broke several tiles
on the kitchen floor in the Tenant’s
unit. Landlord cannot find matching tiles, and as such,
the 100 sq ft kitchen floor needs to be replaced.
 
The Landlord
did not pursue any claims for damage to the walls at the hearing.
 
9.     The Landlord introduced photographic evidence
of damage to the bathtub,
showing both mould and
physical damage to the ceramic interior of the bathtub. The Landlord’s testimony was that the bathtub was in as-new
condition when the Tenant first took possession of the unit. The Landlord provided a paid invoice dated
August 12, 2020, in the amount of $1,587.65, for the installation of a bathtub
liner.




 
10.  The Tenant disputed
the degree to which the mould necessitated the repair work, but had no explanation for the damage to the
ceramic.
 
11.  Based on the photographs presented to me, I am
satisfied that the physical damage to the tub
is beyond normal wear and tear, and therefore constitutes undue damage. As the
damage took place after the Tenant took occupancy, I find on a balance of
probabilities that the damage was caused by the Tenant, another occupant, or
guest. I also find that the Landlord
incurred reasonable out-of-pocked expenses in the amount of $1,587.65 to remedy
the damage by having a liner installed.
 
12.  The Landlord introduced photographs of damaged kitchen
tiles in the kitchen. Approximately six tiles
appear to have shattered. The Landlord’s evidence
was that the tiles were not damaged when the
tenancy commenced. The Landlord
presented a quotation dated January 8, 2022 for the replacement of the kitchen
floor at $1,200 plus HST. The work
has not commenced, but I am satisfied that the Landlord intends to complete the
work. The tiles are somewhat old, and
the Landlord testified that his contractors are unable to find a match for the
tiles, and therefore need to replace the entire floor. This position is supported in the quotation with the notation
“cannot match old tiles.” The Tenant
had no real explanation for the damage to the tiles, and noted in her testimony
that she had offered to repair the floor herself.
 
13.  I am satisfied that the damage is undue,
being over and above normal
wear and tear, and
the nature of the damage points to it being only through
negligence or wilful
act. As it has occurred inside
the unit after
the tenancy commenced, I am also satisfied on a balance
of probabilities that the damage was caused by the Tenant, another occupant, or guest. As it appears that it is not possible to
effect the repair without replacing all tiles, I consider the Landlord’s course
of action to be reasonable, and am satisfied that it is an out-of- pocket
expense he will incur. An award of
$1356 (being $1,200 plus $156.00 HST) is therefore given.
 
14.  At the hearing, the Landlord raised additional damage
claims for missing or damaged cupboard doors.
At these issues were not raised on the application, and the Landlord had plenty of time to amend the application, I have not accepted the Landlord’s request
to amend the application at the hearing.
 
Arrears
 
15.  The Landlord has also sought recovery of arrears on
the L2 application, claiming the amount under reason 5, which provides for the
following reason for seeking compensation: “The tenant or someone else visiting
or living in the rental unit substantially interfered with landlord's reasonable enjoyment or lawful
right, privilege or interest. The tenant must pay the
reasonable out-of-pocket expenses I incurred as a result of this conduct.” The application alleges that non-payment
of rent from October 2021 to date interferes with the Landlord’s interest.
 
16.  Reason 5 on an L2 is ultimately an application under section 88.1 of
the Act. This section
was proclaimed into force on September 1, 2021, and entitles the Landlord to apply to this Board for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by a
landlord due conduct of a




 
tenant, occupant, or guest that substantially interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex for all usual purposes by the
landlord or substantially interferes with another lawful right, privilege or
interest of the landlord. .
 
17.  Section 88.1(4) limits recovery under section 88.1 to
“reasonable out-of-pocket expenses that the landlord has incurred or will incur
as a result of an interference” by the tenant. Arears are a debt, not an
out-of-pocket expense recoverable in an application under section 88.1 of the
Act. On the face of section 88.1, a
successful claim is limited to a cash outlays by a landlord
for conduct by a tenant that falls within the limits of the section.
 
18.  Arrears of rent are properly
claimed under section
87 of the Act:
 
87 (1) A landlord
may apply to the Board for an order
requiring a tenant
or former tenant to pay
arrears of rent if,
 
(a)    
the tenant or former
tenant did not pay rent lawfully required
under the tenancy agreement; and
 
(b)    
in the case of a tenant or former
tenant no longer in possession of the rental unit, the tenant or former tenant
ceased to be in possession on or after the day subsection 18 (1) of Schedule 4
to the Protecting Tenants and Strengthening Community Housing Act, 2020 comes into force. 2020,
c. 16, Sched. 4, s. 18 (1).
 
19.  The Act and the LTB’s procedures provides
that a landlord may claim rent arrears under section 87 by filing an L1
application if also seeking termination for the arrears, and L9 application
seeking arrears only, or an L10 application if seeking arrears after a tenant
has vacated a unit.
 
20.  Landlords have in the past attempted to assert that a
tenant’s failure to pay rent constitutes substantial interference justifying service of an N5 notices of termination given under section 64 of the Act. I consider the order of Vice Chair Carey
in TEL-73936-16 (Re), 2016 CanLII 88462 (ON LTB), at para 8, to be a
succinct and authoritative
statement of the Board’s
approach to such
efforts:
 
Although the failure to pay money to a landlord is arguably substantial interference with a lawful right, privilege or interest, a
landlord cannot use section 64 of the Act to evict a tenant for non-payment of
rent. This is because the Act sets out a comprehensive scheme applicable to
proceedings for non-payment of rent. (For
example, see sections 59, 74, 82, and 88.) It is a general rule of statutory
interpretation that where the Act includes specific
provisions that directly
address a subject, it is not
open to the Board to use more general provisions to deal with the same subject.
 
21.  As section 88.1 mirrors section 64 in that both
address a tenant’s conduct that substantially
interferes with a lawful right,
privilege or interest, a landlord, I consider that the same principle must be applied
to attempts to claim arrears under section 88.1.




 
22.  For the foregoing
reasons, a claim for arrears is not properly
brought by an application
under section 88.1, and is dismissed.
 
23.  In addition, an L2 application does not afford
the Tenant the same notice
and opportunity to procedural
rights that she might have under an L1 or L9 application (for example, the
ability to raise issues under section 82 of the Act).
 
24.  Therefore, I have rejected the Landlord’s request that
I amend the application at the hearing to include
rent arrears, as I consider
to do so would be procedurally unfair to the Tenant.
 
Costs
 
25.  The Landlord has also sought an award of their costs,
and provided two past orders of this Board in which costs were awarded in
support of a claim that the Tenant’s conduct amounted to an abuse of process
that would merit costs. Rule 23 of the Board’s Rules of Practice does give me the discretion to award costs, particularly
when a party “engages in unreasonable
conduct which causes undue delay or
expense.” This Board’s Guideline 3, while not binding upon me, provides
examples of the sort of unreasonable conduct
that might merit an award of costs:
 
(a)            
Bringing a frivolous or vexatious application or motion;
 
(b)            
Initiating an application or any procedure
in bad faith;
 
(c)             
Taking unnecessary steps in a proceeding;
 
(d)            
Failing to take necessary
steps, such as those required
by the RTA or Rules;
 
(e)            
Any misconduct at the hearing or in the proceeding;
 
(f)  Raising an issue which is irrelevant to the proceedings and continuing to pursue
that issue after the Member has pointed out that it is irrelevant;
 
(g)            
Asking for adjournments or delays without
justification;
 
(h)            
Failing to prepare adequately for the hearing;
 
(i)  Acting contemptuously toward the Member or showing
a lack of respect for the
process or the Board;
 
(j)      
Failing to follow the directions of the Member
or upsetting the orderly conduct
of the hearing; and
 
(k)    
Maligning another party or unreasonably slurring
the character of the other party.




 
26.  The two orders argued by the Landlord
merit attention.
 
27.  One order (SWL-23404-18-RV) was a review
hearing, where review
of an order was sought by the tenant,
who did not attend
the review hearing. Costs in the amount of
$500.00 were awarded. I note that, in the circumstances of the
order referenced, the tenant was the applicant
for review, and their non-attendance at a review
requested by them was found
to be an abuse of process.
 
28.  The other order presented by the Landlord is that of
SWT-02644-17, where the Board awarded the landlord costs of $200.00. In this order, the tenant was the
applicant, and the presiding member
found (at para 4 of Determinations and Reasons) that the “Tenant filed two applications with little
to no reasonable prospect of success and unreasonably requested a delay based
upon her own failure to properly prepare for the hearing.”
 
29.  In the matter before me, the Tenant was the
respondent, not the applicant. The cases
cited by the Landlord are therefore distinguishable on their face from the
matter before me. This L2 application
for eviction was rooted in a no-fault ground, and the Landlord also sought
compensation for damage and arrears on the application. In the context
of this tribunal, a respondent is entitled to challenge the application
against them, and I believe that the Tenant made a legitimate effort to put the Landlord to proof of damage.
The Tenant seemed confused about the process of returned possession, and I do
not attribute that to an attempt to abuse process.
 
30.  In the context
of this Board’s operation, I do not see in this matter
the sort of egregious
conduct that might cause me to exercise discretion to award costs.
 
31.  I have however
awarded the Landlord
its filing fee. While it is typical
that the Board
does not award filing fees on no-fault eviction applications, such as an
N12 for personal use, the Landlord’s application also included a successful
claim for compensation which makes the application more than a simple no-fault
eviction application.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The tenancy between
the Landlord and the Tenant
is terminated, as of
February 2, 2022. The Tenant must move out of the rental unit on or before
February 2, 2022.
 
2.     If the unit is not vacated on or before
February 2, 2022, then starting February
3, 2022, the Landlord may file
this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may
be enforced.
 
3.     Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after February 3, 2022.
 
4.     The Tenant shall pay to the Landlord
$1,681.75, which represents compensation for the use of the unit from January 1, 2022
to January 31, 2022.
 
5.     The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord $54.25
per day for compensation for the use of
the unit from February 1, 2022 to the date the Tenant moves out of the unit.




 
 
 
6.    
The Tenant shall also pay to the Landlord
$186.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
7.     The Tenant shall also pay the Landlord $2,943.65 for
his reasonable out-of-pocket expenses to repair
undie damage caused by the Tenant, another
occupant, or guest.
 
8.     If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord the full amount
owing on or before February
11, 2022, the Tenant will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from February 12, 2022
at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
 
 








 
Ian Speers




 


January 31, 2022
Date Issued
Vice Chair,
Landlord and Tenant
Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East,
Suite 700, 7th Floor
Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires
on August 3, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

