Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-18
File number:	
TNL-36187-21

Citation:	Li v Wong, 2022 CanLII 122684 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp34>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNL-36187-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


BASEMENT, 85 IAN BARON AVENUE MARKHAM ON L3R5S6


 




Between:


Huan Jie
Li


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Paul K.w Wong Xian
Qing Huang


Tenants



 
 
 
Huan Jie Li (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict Paul K.w
Wong and Xian Qing Huang (the 'Tenants') because:
(a)  
they, another occupant of the
rental unit or someone they permitted in the residential complex have wilfully or negligently caused
undue damage to the premises. The Landlord has also
applied for an order requiring the Tenants to compensate the Landlord for the
damage; because they, another occupant of the rental unit or someone they
permitted in the residential complex have substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or
another tenant (the L2/N5 Application); and,
(b)  
the Landlord requires possession of the rental
unit for the purpose of residential
occupation (the L2/N12 Application).
 
This application was heard by
videoconference on January
6, 2022 and February 4, 2022.
 
The Landlord and the Tenants
attended the hearings. The Landlord
was represented by Barrington Lue Sang. Del Terrelonge and Kerri Kwong provided testimony
for the Landlord.
 
Determinations:
 
The L2/N12 Application
 
1.     For the reasons set out below, I find that the
Landlord in good faith requires possession of the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation for a period of at least one year.
Therefore, the tenancy is terminated effective March 31, 2022.
 
2.     On October 20, 2021, the Landlord served the Tenants
with an N12 notice of termination
seeking termination of the tenancy for the purpose of residential occupation by
the Landlord. The termination date set out in the N12 notice is January 12,
2022.




 
3.    
The Landlord paid the Tenant compensation equal to one month's rent on
January 6, 2022.
 
Good Faith
 
4.     The N12 was served pursuant to section 48 of the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the “Act”). Section 48(1) requires that, in
order to be successful in this application, the Landlord must establish that at the time of the service
of the N12 Notice, she required,
in good faith, the unit for residential use for a period of at least one
year.
 
5.     In Feeney v. Noble, 1994 CanLII 10538 (ON SC),
the Court held that the test of good faith is genuine intention to occupy the
premises and not the reasonableness of the Landlord’s proposal. This principle was upheld in Salter v.
Beljinac 2001 CanLII 40231 (ON SCDC) where
the Court held that the “good faith”
requirement simply means that the Landlord sincerely intends to occupy the
rental unit. The Landlord may also have additional motives for selecting a
particular rental unit, but this does not affect the good faith of the
Landlord’s notice.”
 
6.    
The Landlord submitted an
affidavit with her application that she in good faith requires possession of
the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation for a period of at
least one year. The Landlord
currently lives in the upper floors of the house. At the hearing the Landlord
noted that at the time of the service
of the N12, she had intended to move into the basement unit and
instead rent out the basement unit to provide a greater income stream. On November 2, 2021, she learned that the
basement unit was not a legal separate unit, and was issued an Order to Comply
from the City of Markham.
 
7.    
The Landlord hired an outside consultant, Del Terrelonge, who provided testimony
at the hearing of January 6,
2022, to assess her options. He
provided two options: removing the basement apartment, or seeking a minor
variance. On the latter option, Mr.
Terrelonge’s written report which was introduced as evidence expressed doubt
that the City of Markham would grant a minor variance. He nevertheless noted the extensive (and expensive) work that
the Landlord would be required to undertake if the City of Markham was amenable
to the variance:
 
if approval was granted, the
first stage of the building permit would require a full demolition of the
interior space prior to construction. Upon completion of the demolition, the construction process
would begin and involves coordination of the scope of work
as required for performance by all of the trades.
 
As per the Building Code, the
entire basement must be re framed and insulated, with new electrical,
mechanical, HVAC, new drywall, tape, sanding and painting completed. Followed
by installation of kitchen millwork, bathrooms, fixtures, tiling, doors,
exhaust and Fire Life Safety systems. Note, all of the stages of the build
throughout the construction process will have to be inspected and signed off by the City of Markham Building Department
to ensure Building Code compliance.
 
8.    
Faced with what she considers the
prohibitive cost of legalizing the basement unit, the Landlord indicated
that her plans have changed
and she now intends to use the house as




 
a single family dwelling, specifically to add the basement
space to her living area and no longer rent out the basement as a
separate rental unit.
 
9.     The Landlord’s rationale for seeking possession of the
basement unit have changed since the N12 was served, but I am aware of no authority
that in principle prevents such a
change in motivations from sustaining an L2 application made pursuant to an
N12. Changing circumstances are material if the landlord did not have a good
faith intention when the notice was given, but outside factors cause a good
faith intention to crystalize by the time of the hearing (see Lacombe v. Duval, [2002] ORHTF No. 74). Similarly, if an
N12 notice ceases to be in good faith after it is served, the notice may become
void (see Gill v Houck, 2021 CanLII 141403 (ON LTB)). At issue is whether the notice was given
based on a genuine intention to occupy the rental unit, and that there has
continuously remained a genuine intention to occupy the rental unit up to the
date of the hearing.                                                                                                                                  I find the Landlord has proven both
elements.
 
10.  I find that, at the date of the hearing, the Landlord
genuinely intends to annex the basement unit to her living space, as her own
testimony and that of Mr. Terrelonge were consistent and credible that she is
not prepared to incur the cost of legalizing the basement unit. She has solicited professional expertise on her options, and accordingly I find her decision is not arbitrary or
capricious.
 
11.   But what of the period
prior to the order to comply issuing
on or about November 3, 2021?
 
12.  I find the Landlord’s testimony credible about her
intention when the N12 was served on October
20, 2021, but there were issues raised
by the Tenants that require
consideration.
 
13.  The Tenants believe that the N12 may have been
retaliatory, as they had called the municipality for an inspection on October
13, 2021 that resulted in the order to comply previously mentioned. I accept as credible the Landlord’s explanation that she didn’t
know about the consequences until
November 3, 2021, after the N12 was served, and that the inspection was not an
over-riding consideration in serving the N12.
 
14.  The Tenant testified that there are several
maintenance and harassment issues that they have experienced from the Landlord,
including allegations of spying, opening the door to the rental unit without
their consent, and being slow to attend
to repairs to appliances. No separate tenant applications The
Tenants further stated that they don’t believe that the Landlord would proceed
as she has testified, but rather re rent the unit to another resident for a higher amount. The Tenant
submitted no evidence to support these allegations.
 
15.  The Tenants also indicated that the Landlord had
attempted to seek a rent increase earlier in 2021, despite the rent increase
moratorium in place at the time. The
ask that I infer the real reason
for the N12 at the time of service was to end their tenancy
and find a tenant willing to pay more rent. While the discussion of a rent increase
was strictly improper, I find that it dovetails with the Landlord’s testimony
that she wished to find an




 
additional revenue stream, which was her stated reason for seeking
to move into the basement unit
at the time the N12 was served.
 
16.  I find that none of the Tenants’
allegations have undermined the Landlord’s testimony
that the N12 was served in good faith.
 
17.  I therefore find that the Landlord in good faith requires possession of the rental
unit for the purpose of
residential occupation for a period of at least one year.
 
Relief from eviction
 
18.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Act, and find that it would
not be unfair to postpone the eviction until March 31, 2022 pursuant to
subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act.
 
19.  The Landlord is faced with an Order to Comply from the
City of Markham. At the initial
hearing of January 6, 2022, the Landlord introduced evidence that the
enforcement deadline was to be February 2, 2022. At the reconvened hearing on February 4, 2022, the Landlord
indicated that the City of Markham was offering temporary forbearance on
enforcement, pending the outcome of this hearing.
Although no clear timeline was given
as to the duration of the forbearance, I infer from the tone of the testimony
and submissions that it will not be indefinite.
 
20.  The Tenants have asked that termination of the tenancy
be deferred until
the summer, as their children are in school. I accept that the presence of children and
lack of alternate accommodation makes an 11-day termination a recourse of last
resort in a no-fault termination of the tenancy, but the pending enforcement of
the Order to Comply forces me to conclude that a termination date of June or
July would be unfair to the Landlord. Having regard to the length of time that
the Tenants have known about the N12, and the potential prejudice to the
Landlord, I believe that a termination date of March 31, 2022 is fair to all
parties.
 
The L2/N5 Application
 
21.  The Landlord did not advance the L2/N5 Application to
sustain a termination of the tenancy. A claim of
$200 damage to a garage
door was not supported by any invoice
or quote, and is therefore not awarded to the Landlord.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The tenancy between
the Landlord and the Tenants
is terminated, as of
March 31, 2022. The Tenants must move out of the rental unit on or before
March 31, 2022.
 
2.     If the unit is not vacated on or before
March 31, 2022, then starting
April 1, 2022, the
Landlord may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so
that the eviction may be enforced.




 
3.    
Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after April 1, 2022.
 
 








 
 
Ian Speers




 


February 18, 2022 Date Issued
Vice Chair, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East,
Suite 700, 7th Floor
Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of
the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires on October 1, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before
this date with the Court Enforcement
Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is
located.

