Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-10
File number:	
TNT-27158-20

Citation:	Januszewski v  Ghafouri, 2022 CanLII 56754 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq1c5>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-27158-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


BASEMENT, 226 BROADWAY AVENUE TORONTO ON M4P1V9


 




Between:


Paul Januszewski


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Nahid
Ghafouri


Landlord



 
 
 
Paul Januszewski
(the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that Nahid Ghafouri (the
'Landlord') or the Landlord's superintendent or the Landlord's agent entered
the rental unit illegally and altered
the locking system
on a door giving entry to the rental
unit or residential complex without giving the Tenant replacement keys.
 
This
application was heard by teleconference on July 29, 2020, May 18, 2021 and
October 26, 2021. The Tenant,
the Tenant’s legal representative B. Bilimoria
and the Landlord attended on all
three hearing dates. The Landlord was represented by D. Strashin on July 29,
2020 and by S. Emam on May 18, 2021 and October 26, 2021.
 
Procedural:
 
Bifurcated hearing
 
1.   
The hearing
of this application was bifurcated. On July 29, 2020
the parties gave evidence and
submissions on the issue of whether the Tenant was illegally evicted and, if
so, if he should be put back in possession of the rental unit.
 
2.   
By interim
order issued on March
1, 2021 I found that the Tenant had been illegally evicted and I ordered that he be put back
in possession of the rental unit.
 
3.   
On May 18, 2021 and on October 26, 2021 the parties gave evidence and submissions as to the other remedies claimed by the
Tenant.
 
Amendments
 
4.   
At the hearing on July
29, 2020 the Tenant requested that the application be amended to add a remedy of compensation in the amount
of $9,155.63 for the loss of possessions that were also itemized in the proposed
amendment. The Landlord’s legal representative opposed the request because
he had not had an opportunity to review the list of items with




 
the Landlord.
The Landlord was not prejudiced by this amendment because the hearing
of this matter was bifurcated and so the issue of remedies other than
recovering possession was heard well after July 29 and the Landlord had ample
time to review the list with her representative. I granted the request and the
application is amended accordingly.
 
5.   
In March 2021, the
Tenant requested further amendments to the remedies claimed. The Tenant requested general damages in the amount
of $3,500.00 and compensation for the costs associated with enforcing the interim order of
March 1, 2021.
At the hearing on May 18, 2021 the Landlord consented to
the request. The application is further amended accordingly.
 
Determinations:
 
Compensation for the loss of belongings
 
1.    
As noted in the interim
order of March 1, 2021, the parties exchanged
emails on July 2, 2020 as to the status of the tenancy.
The Landlord sent the Tenant
an email stating
that the Tenant had moved out of the unit but that he left behind lots
of garbage and that he had five days to remove his belongings. The Tenant
responded the same day with several emails. The Tenant stated that he had not
moved out and he told the Landlord not to change the locks and not to destroy
any of his property.
 
2.    
The Tenant testified that he was told by a neighbour on
July 11, 2020 that his belongings
were sitting outside of the residential complex. The neighbour sent him a
photograph showing his belongings at the side of the house. The Tenant attended
at the property on July 11, 2020 and on July 24, 2020 and took more photographs
of his belongings sitting beside the house
(he was staying
in a short-term-rental for various
reasons, including the condition of the property and that he
was under a no-contact order restricting his attendance at the property).
 
3.    
On July 17, 2020 the Board
issued an interim
order requiring the Landlord to preserve the Tenant’s belongings.
 
4.    
At the hearing the Landlord acknowledged that she had removed the Tenant’s belongings from the unit by July 11, 2020
and that she had put them to the side of the house. The Tenant filed a copy of
an email from the Landlord, dated July 11, 2020, stating that the Tenant’s
belongings had been moved out of the unit and that they would be picked up and
disposed of by a garbage management company on July 13, 2020. The Landlord
testified that she disposed of the Tenant’s items a few days after July 11,
2020.
 
5.    
At the hearing on May
18, 2021 the Tenant went over the items on the list from his amended application and testified that he owned these things and that he lost them as a
result of the Landlord’s actions. The Tenant further testified as to how he
reached the cost that he claims for each of these items.
 
6.    
The Landlord’s representative cross-examined the Tenant on some of these items.
The Landlord gave no evidence to contradict that the Tenant
owned any of these items.
She




 
testified that she did not see the CSNY tour jacket, the art pieces or the guitar among the items that she moved.
 
7.    
I accept the Tenant’s
list of belongings as evidence of items that he previously owned. The Landlord
gave no evidence
that would contradict this list. The Tenant
filed receipts for some of the items on the list and cannot
be expected to have receipts
for everything he owned.
 
8.    
The Tenant did not
testify that he discovered on July 11,
2020 that any of his belongings were missing, so his claim is for compensation
for items that were destroyed by having been left outside and then disposed of
by the Landlord. The Tenant filed photographs showing specific items at the side of the house that had been damaged. The Tenant filed no photographs of the CSNY tour
jacket, the art pieces, or the guitar. Considering the Tenant’s lack of
evidence and the Landlord’s testimony that she did not see these items when she
moved the Tenant’s belongings, I cannot find, on a balance of probabilities,
that these items were among those which the Landlord moved outside.
Accordingly, the Landlord will not be ordered to compensate the Tenant for the
alleged damage, destruction, or disposal of these items.
 
9.    
I note that the Tenant
claims over $2,000.00 for the cost of the CSNY tour jacket. It makes no sense
that if this jacket was destroyed that the Tenant would fail to take a
photograph of it when he
took photographs of much
less valuable items. It is more
likely than not that if the Tenant thought this jacket was in the pile but not
visible (because it was in a bag, for example), that he would try to find it.
It makes no sense that if he did see it in the pile, that he would not retrieve
it to see if it could be salvaged. He testified that he did not take any of the
items on July 11, 2020 because he did not have room in his short term rental but he must have had room
for a jacket. However, the Tenant gave
no evidence about any efforts related to this jacket. Even if I found
that this was an item that was moved
outside by the Landlord, I would have to consider
the Tenant’s failure
to mitigate his loss.
 
10.  The Tenant was staying in a short term rental
and did not have the room to bring back the
belongings that were not damaged to the point of being destroyed. The Tenant
also testified that his father, who had earlier helped the Tenant move and
store belongings to keep them from being damaged by the condition of the unit,
had no more room to store the Tenant’s belongings.
 
11.  I find, on a balance of probabilities, that
the Landlord caused the Tenant to lose the remaining items on the Tenant’s list
of belongings (all but the jacket, the art, and the guitar). The Landlord’s
actions caused some of the items to be damaged (the Tenant’s photographs show some of his items were damaged)
and all of the items to be disposed
of. The Landlord acknowledged moving these things outside, exposing them to the
elements, and she acknowledged disposing of them shortly afterward. The
Landlord testified that some of these
items, including a couch and antique bookcase, were in poor condition when they were still in the
unit. The Landlord filed no photographs of these or any other of the Tenant’s
belongings while they were in the unit. Given the Landlord’s lack of evidence and the fact that her own actions
affected the condition
of these items, I




 
cannot find, on a balance of probabilities, that these items
were in poor condition
when they were moved by the Landlord.
 
12.  The Tenant’s list of items gives an
estimated replacement cost for each item. The Landlord’s legal representative
cross-examined the Tenant on this testimony but the Landlord gave no evidence
that would contradict the Tenant’s estimates. I therefore find, on a balance of probabilities, that
the costs set out on the Tenant’s list are the replacement cost for each item.
 
13.  The Landlord’s legal representative
submitted that the Tenant is not entitled to replacement cost for some or all
of these items as some have depreciated in value for various reasons. I
disagree. As a result of the Landlord’s actions, the Tenant no longer has these
items and he is entitled to an order that restores him, as realistically as
possible, to the position he was in but for the Landlord’s actions. The best way to do this would be to give the Tenant his
possessions back. That is not possible. The next best way to do this is for the
Landlord to pay the Tenant the amount necessary to replace these items. If some lesser amount is ordered, the Tenant will be in a position to replace
only some of these items. That is not fair in the circumstances.
 
14.  There are several
items on the list for which the Tenant found
estimated replacement costs
in US dollars. The parties agreed that these amounts would be converted to
Canadian dollars at the exchange
rate in place on the date that I write this order.
This order is written on
January 4, 2022 and the
exchange rate today is $1.00 US = $1.27 CDN.
 
15.  Based on the above, I find that the
replacement cost for the Tenant’s items that were damaged/destroyed then disposed of by the Landlord is $6,236.59. The Landlord will be
ordered to pay this amount to the Tenant.
 
Costs
 
16.  The Tenant claims compensation for the
costs he incurred enforcing the interim order issued March 1, 2021:
$330.00 non-refundable Sheriff’s fee, $339.00 for a locksmith, and
$41.81 for a train
ticket. The Tenant filed
copies of receipts
showing that he incurred
these expenses.
 
17.  It is uncontested that the Landlord did not give the
Tenant possession of the unit as per the interim order and that the Tenant had
to enforce the order with the assistance of the Sheriff. The Landlord testified
that she did not give the Tenant possession because she believed that there was
still a court order in place prohibiting the Tenant from being on the premises.
There was once such an order in place but it was lifted when the charges
against the Tenant were withdrawn in November 2020. The Landlord’s legal
representative at the time (D. Strashin) was notified of this in January 2021 by email.
The Landlord is deemed to know what her counsel knows and so I find that
the Landlord knew, on March 1, 2021, that there was no legal prohibition
preventing the Tenant from moving back into the rental unit. There was
therefore no good reason for the Landlord to fail to give the Tenant possession
of the unit in accordance with the interim order.




 
18.  The Tenant is entitled to compensation for
these costs. The Landlord could have given the Tenant a key when the interim
order was issued but she did not. As a result, the Tenant had to incur the
above noted costs to recover possession of the rental unit. The Board has the authority under s. 204(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) to order a party to pay another party’s
costs. In several previous Board orders, tenants have been required to pay the cost of the non-refundable Sheriff’s fee to their landlords
in situations where incurring this fee could have been avoided. This
situation is analogous to those cases.
 
19.  I note that the travel
cost is very low. This was the cost of train transportation from Ottawa (where
the Tenant was living with his parents) to Toronto. If the Tenant had instead
lived in short term rentals (or some other form of paid accommodation) while
waiting to be put back into possession of the rental unit, he would have been
entitled to a much higher amount reflecting the difference in cost between his
rent for the tenancy and his accommodations costs. The Tenant mitigated this
potential harm by staying with his parents.
 
Damages
 
20.  The Tenant claims
$3,500.00 in general
damages for the mental distress
caused by the Landlord’s actions.
 
21.  The Tenant filed a copy of a letter dated
May 10, 2021 from a psychiatrist who has been treating the Tenant since 2019. This very detailed letter states that this tenancy has been
the subject of many of the doctor’s discussions with the Tenant and outlines
many ways in which the Tenant’s problems with the Landlord and the tenancy have
impeded his treatment. One statement in the letter summarizes the remainder of
it:
 
…[I]n my opinion,
your client’s tenancy experience with the respondent Landlord in this matter
has been so disruptive to his mental health and well-being, and has interfered so profoundly with his addressing other mental and physical health
issues that preceded his tenancy, that it is quite possible
he may never recover completely, and in any event his pursuit
of healing will be an enduring concern.
 
22.  Although this letter addresses many issues
of the tenancy that are not part of this application, the letter does specifically refer
to the Tenant being locked
out of the unit and losing many of his possessions. The
letter notes that “directly confronting the extent of loss and damage to his
possessions is deeply disturbing, as it obviously activates in him a cascade of
painful emotions around the chaos and upheaval he endured during his tenancy.”
 
23.  Based on this letter, I find, on a balance
of probabilities, that the Tenant suffered a high degree of mental distress as
a result of the Landlord illegally locking him out of the unit and disposing of
his possessions. Even without such cogent and convincing medical evidence, it
could be reasonably concluded that any tenant who is illegally evicted and then deprived
of many of their possessions would suffer some degree of mental distress.




 
24.  Given the degree
of mental distress
suffered by the Tenant, the amount claimed
in general damages is reasonable. The Landlord will be ordered to pay
the Tenant
$3,500.00 in damages in the nature
of pain and suffering
arising from the Landlord’s
breach of the Act.
 
Remedies: set off
 
25.  This order requires the Landlord to pay the Tenant over $10,000.00. As of the last day of
hearing, the Tenant did not live in the unit, in part because the Landlord had removed the front door to the unit. The parties
agreed that this was an issue to be addressed in a different application.
However, I make note of it here because this order allows the Tenant to set the
amount owed to him off against future rent in the event that he does move back
into the unit.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant $6,236.59 in compensation for the cost of items that were damaged/destroyed then disposed
of by the Landlord.
 
2.    
The Landlord
shall also pay to the Tenant $3,500.00
in damages in the nature of pain and
suffering arising from the Landlord’s breach of the Act.
 
3.    
The Landlord
shall also pay to the Tenant the cost of his out of pocket expenses in the
amount of $710.81.
 
4.    
The total
amount owed by the Landlord
is $10,447.40.
 
5.    
If the Landlord does not pay the Tenant the full amount owing by
February 28, 2022, the Landlord
will owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from March 1, 2022
at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
6.    
If the Landlord does not pay the Tenant the full amount owing by
January 31, 2022, and if the Tenant does move (or has already
moved) back into the rental unit, the Tenant may recover this amount by
deducting it from future rent or from any arrears owed to the Landlord.
 
7.    
The Tenant
has the right,
at any time, to collect
the full amount owing or any balance outstanding under this order.












January 10, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Renée Lang
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite 700, 7th Floor




 
Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
This order contains all reasons for the determinations and order made.
No further reasons
will be issued.
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

