Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
TNT-20714-19

Citation:	TNT-20714-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 54192 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpx73>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Sections
30 & 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-20714-19
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL and LL (the
'Tenants') applied for an order determining that WL and KMHARC (the 'Landlords')
failed to meet the Landlords' maintenance obligations under
the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') or failed
to comply with health,
safety, housing or maintenance standards.
 
The Tenants also
applied for an order determining that the Landlords substantially interfered
with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a member
of their household.
 
This application was heard by telephone and video conference over a number of days including,
June 19 and December 11, 2020, and May 20 and October 27, 2021.
 
Only the Tenant
E. L attended all hearing days, and the Landlord, W. L and her husband D. H,
attended all hearing days except October 27, 2021. The Landlords’ legal representative, W. H, attended all the hearing days. The Landlord, W. L, and her husband,
D. H, were assisted
by a translator, S. Y.
 
Determinations:
 
1. The rental unit is an
“estate” home on 3 acres adjacent to a conservation area. It has a well and a septic system. The Tenants, a couple with four children,
moved in to the rental unit in March 2018, and the monthly rent was $3,100.00. They moved out in March
2020.




 
T2 Application:
 
1.    
The Tenants’
allegations in their T2 application all relate to complaints about maintenance,
and they mirror all the allegations in the T6 application. I found that this was not a T2 application, but it was properly before the Board as a T6 application about maintenance. The
T2 application will be dismissed.
 
T6 Application:
 
2.    
The Tenants’
allegations about breaches
of maintenance relate to loss of substantial enjoyment caused by a problem
with the septic system, failure to repair the air conditioning system, leaking
in the walls and kitchen that led
to water damage in the basement, and poor water quality due to issues
with the water filtration system.
 
Septic System:
 
3.    
There were many hours of testimony
for this application, and most of it was focused on problems arising from the septic
system.
 
4.    
The undisputed facts are that the Tenants first
noticed a foul smell and puddles
in the backyard in June 2018,
and they notified the Landlords immediately.
 
5.    
The Landlords
hired LJ’s pumping
and septic to examine the septic system,
and they told the Landlords that the septic system
was full, and they said the Landlords would have to build a new septic system. The Landlords submitted into evidence
invoices from the septic company dated July 16, 2018, and July 27, 2018, for a
total of $960.50, to pump and diagnose the problem.
 
6.    
The Landlords
eventually hired AI, and they built a completely new septic system in a
different part of the backyard, and they invoiced over $14,000.00 for it on
August 5, 2018. The Landlords
also hired a landscaping company
to sod and seed in the
repaired backyard, and they invoiced $8,000.00 for it by August 13, 2018.
 
7.    
It is undisputed that the Tenants
informed the Landlords that the ground
was sinking and holes were
forming above the new septic bed on or around September 2018. It is also undisputed that the Tenants
told the Landlords that the problem was not very noticeable or disturbing over
the Fall and Winter, and the parties agreed to revisit the issue in the Spring
of 2019.
 
8.    
The Tenants
began texting the Landlords about a
problem in the backyard by March or April, 2019.
 
9.    
It is undisputed that the Landlords sent a repairman from A. on or about
May 2, 2019. The repairman’s diagnosis was that the Tenants were using too much water,
and the Landlords told them to cut down their water usage.




 
10. 
The relationship between the parties
broke down after
that. The Tenants
contacted the City By-law on or
about the end of June or beginning of July, 2019, about
the problems with foul smell and
waste water in the backyard.
 
11. 
The City By-law ordered
the Landlords to attend to the problem,
and the Landlords sent someone to look at the problem again
in July 2019.
 
12.  It is undisputed that nothing was done to
the septic system until after the Landlords received an order from City By-law on September 13, 2019, to pump the septic tank. The
Landlords then commenced a regular schedule of pumping the septic tank every
two weeks, until the Tenants vacated the rental unit in March, 2020.
 
13.  The Landlords said that after the Tenants moved
out in March 2020, they found that the Tenants had built a childrens
playground in the backyard with concrete and metal rods planted in the ground.
The Landlords said that they had safety concerns when they saw what the Tenants had left. They said that they hired professionals to
remediate the concrete and metal, and they found metal rebar in the ground that
was as long as 1 metre.
 
14.  The Landlords said that they also found that the sewage pipe had been damaged by the
metal rods planted in the ground for the playground.
 
15.  The Landlords said that they were obliged
to repair the entire septic
system in October 2020 because of the broken pipe. They also said that between 2018 and 2020,
they spent about $33,000.00 repairing the septic system.
 
16.  The Tenants allege that they were unable to
use their backyard almost the entire time they lived in the rental unit. The Tenant, (EL) said that the main reason
they rented the house was to use the large outdoor space for entertaining, and
they wanted to investigate whether they wanted to purchase a farm property. EL said that they were attacked by the
foul smell every time they walked outside the property or opened a window. They said that they had put in a garden
and childrens play area in order to enjoy
the property, but they ended up living in a property where they could not even open
the windows. They request a rent
abatement of 20% of the monthly rental of $3,100.00 for 22 months or
$13,640.00.
 
17.  The Tenants submit that they had to pay out
of their own pockets to pump the septic system
during the summer
of 2019, and that cost them $536.75,
which they request
the Landlords to reimburse.
 
18.  The Landlords submit
that they responded
immediately to the Tenants’ communications of June 2018 about
the septic system,
and then they pumped out the system
twice, at a cost of almost $1,000.00, before hiring
a professional contractor to replace the septic system and lawn in August,
2018.
 
19.  The Landlords submit that when the Tenants
complained again, and they mutually agreed to check into the problem in the
Spring of 2019, the professionals advised the Landlords that the problem
was due to too much water use. However, when the Tenants




 
complained to the City By-law, and the Landlords were ordered to pump the system, the Landlords hired contractors to pump the
septic system twice per month at a cost of
$5,254.00
between September 2019, and when the Tenants moved out in March 2020. The Landlords submit that even if there
is a breach of their
maintenance obligation found, then the Tenants are responsible
for paying for the undue damage they caused by building their children’s
playground. They submit that the
Tenants built the playground without any authorization from the Landlords, they
broke a sewage pipe and damaged the septic system in the first place, and that
is what led to all the problems.
 
Air Conditioning System:
 
20. 
EL said that he noticed the air conditioning (A/C) was not working
properly by September 2018. He said he notified the Landlords about
the situation, but they agreed
that it would be fixed by the Spring of 2019.
 
21.  EL texted the Landlords on May 30, 2019, asking
about the A/C, and the Landlords sent a repair person in mid-June, 2019. EL said that the repair person informed
him and the Landlords that the system was so old it would need to be replaced. EL said that the Landlords did not do
anything to inspect or repair the problem until they came to the house on July
20, 2019. He said when the Landlords
came that day, he “lost a fuse” because he believed
his family was being mistreated. He said that they
could no longer sleep in the upstairs bedrooms because of the heat, and
they had all moved into the living-room.
 
22.  EL said that the Tenants
had purchased fans and a small air conditioning unit to get them
through the month of July, 2019. EL
said that he returned the small air conditioning unit for a refund by August,
2019.
 
23.  EL said that the Landlords
replaced the A/C around August 1, 2019. He said that the balance of his out of pocket expenses
for fans and air conditioning is $202.96.
 
24.  EL submits that the Landlords admit that
they were out of the country from May to June, 2019, and they could
not properly attend
to the problem during that time. He submits that it was hot and stuffy throughout May
to July, 2019, and that the upstairs comprises 30% of the house. He said that the Tenants were unable to
use the upstairs from May, 2019. Therefore, EL requests a rent abatement of 30%
for the three months May, June and July, 2019, or $2,880.00.
 
25.   (DH), the Landlord
W.’s husband, said that the Tenants complained to the Landlords about the A/C as of April, 2019. He said that the Landlords hired
professionals to inspect, and they told the Landlords that the system was old
and the cooling was not very broken.
He said that they were informed that the system was not broken, but it was not very effective.
 
26.  DH said that the Landlords only realized
that the A/C was a major problem when they attended the rental unit on July 20, 2019, and they felt how hot it was. He said that the




 
Landlords installed new equipment by the end of July,
and he had an invoice
for the service dated July
30, 2019.
 
27.  The Landlords submit
that they were away until the end of June,
2019, and they attended
to the problem as soon as they became aware of its seriousness. The Landlords submit that landlords are,
in general, not obliged to provide air conditioning unless the temperature
exceeds 26 degrees Celsius. The
Landlords submit that the temperature in June 2019 did not exceed 26 degrees
Celsius until June 26, 2019. The
system was completely repaired by August 3, 2019.
 
Rotten Kitchen
Wall:
 
28.  EL said that the Tenants noticed problems
with the kitchen wall as soon as they moved in. He said there
was rot under the window
in the kitchen because of water entering
from outside. He said that
there was mould on the wall.
 
29.  EL said that the Landlords
sent a handyman to repair the wall a number of times, but all he did was cut out the rot and replace
it with filler. He said that the
handyman did the same thing about two or three times without ever getting to
the root of the problem.
 
30.  The Tenants submit that the rot in the kitchen
wall was chronic
and it existed prior to their moving in. The Tenants submit that the Landlords only took limited action
to remedy the situation, including patching the roof. The Tenants submit that the Landlords actions were not
effective, and they prevented the continuing rot for a maximum of three to four
weeks, and then it consistently returned.
 
31.  The Tenants request a rent abatement for 20
months that they lived in the rental unit, alleging that it was only alleviated
for about 6 months out of the 26 months they lived there. The Tenants say that this part of the kitchen
comprises 10% of the rental
unit, so they request an
abatement of 20 months at 10% of the rent, or $6,200.00.
 
32.  DH said that the Tenants
informed the Landlords about a problem
with rot in the kitchen wall, and they were aware that
there was a section of wall that was particularly problematic. He said that the Landlords hired two companies
to repair the inside and outside wall. He
said that once the Landlords knew how to address the problem, they hired a
roofing company and carried out a roof repair.
He submitted into evidence an invoice dated April 6, 2019 for the roof
repair.
 
33. 
The Landlords submit that the Landlords tried
to find the root of the problem, and they
hired a roofing company to fix it as of April 6, 2019. They submit that they thought
the problem was resolved after this repair.
 
Leaking:
 
34.  EL said that in May 2019, the Tenants
noticed leaking from the dishwasher. He
said that they informed the Landlords, and the Landlords sent a repair
person who repaired a small
hose leaking behind the dishwasher.




 
 
 
35.  EL said that there was still a lot of water
on the floor, so he personally called
in a plumber at the beginning of June 2019. He said that he also informed
the Landlords. EL said
that his plumber noticed
that a garburetor was broken.
EL said that he instructed the plumber to replace
it, at a cost of $929.99. He said that he informed
the Landlords how much was spent, but he did not receive a
reimbursement as the relationship had already soured between the parties.
 
36.  EL said that the water caused a lot of damage in the basement.
He said that the carpet was soaked, it smelled and had to
be replaced.
 
37.  EL said that the water kept leaking until
the end of June, 2019, when the plumber fixed the garburetor. He said that the Landlords told the Tenants
to clean all the water
damage in the basement, and they never came on site to inspect the water
damage.
 
38.  EL said that the Tenants
had to close off the basement from June 2019 to May 2020
when they left because they noticed black mould appearing.
 
39.  EL said that there was water damage to children’s toys and art, as well as
the carpet. They claim $217.52
for cleaning the damaged carpet.
 
40.  The Tenants submit
that the basement
comprises 20% of the rental unit that they were unable to use for 12 months. They request a rent abatement of 20% for
12 months or
$7,440.00.
 
41.  The Tenants submit
that the children’s toys and clothing
that was damaged
in the basement should be
reimbursed at an estimated $400.00.
 
42.  The Landlords said that they did not know
about any further leaking issues until September 2019, when the Tenants complained again. The Landlords
also said that the
Tenants refused to let in their handyman
on October 25, 2019, and the Tenants
said that they would tend to
their own repairs afterward.
 
43.  The Landlords submit that the Tenants admit that the Landlords sent a handyman to fix a water leaking problem
in the kitchen right away in May, 2019. The
Landlords submit that the Tenants admit that the handyman repaired a hose in
the dishwasher. The Landlords submit that they had no knowledge
at all of a further
leaking problem after
the dishwasher was repaired,
until September 2019. They submit
that the Tenants refused entry to their handyman after that.
 
44.  The Landlords submit
that even though
they were unaware
of further leaking
after the handyman repaired
the dishwasher in May, 2019, they are willing to reimburse the Tenants $929.97
for the garburetor they replaced.
 
Water Filtration:
 
45.  EL said that they had never lived in a
place that had a well system. He said
that the water filtration system
was not working properly , and the Landlords had never informed




 
them about adding salt to the filtration system. He said that the Tenants only found out about maintenance of the system when
they noted the bad quality of the water.
 
46.  EL submitted into evidence an email to the
Landlords dated April 7, 2018, listing a number of maintenance issues,
and asking the Landlords to provide an invoice
about the last time the water
filtration system had been serviced.
 
47.  EL said that the Tenants
notified the Landlords
about milky water by June 2018, and they
started using bottled water for drinking and cooking after that. EL did not have any documentary evidence
about communication with the Landlords about this problem.
 
48.  The Tenants submit
that they asked
for proof of service to the water filtration
system soon after moving in. They submit that the Landlords failed to
respond. Because of the Landlords’
failure to service the water filtration system, the Tenants submit that they
had to drink and cook with bottled water, at a cost of $200.00 per month X 26
months =
$5,200.00, which they request
the Landlords to reimburse.
 
49. 
DH said that the Landlords left the Tenants with at least two filters so they could change them. He also said that the filtration system
did not need any maintenance other than to add salt once or twice a year.
 
50.  DH said that the Tenants
would have been instructed how to add salt or change the filters
by his real estate agent upon the Tenants moving in. He also said that the filtration system would have been serviced
right before the Tenants moved in.
 
51. 
DH said that he had no invoices about servicing the filtration system
during the time the
Tenants lived in the house because the Tenants did not request it.
 
52.  The Landlords submit
that they inspected the water filtration system after the Tenants left, and they found the water to be
clean. The Landlords submit that they
were unaware that the water was undrinkable, and the Tenants had no evidence
that it was undrinkable. Upon moving in the Tenants had a full bottle of salt,
and they never asked the Landlords to replace it afterwards.
 
 
Reasons and Analysis:
 
 
53.  Subsection 20(1) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) provides that a landlord is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex,
including the rental units in
it, in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with
health, safety, housing and maintenance standards.
 
54.  As set out in the Landlord and Tenant Board’s Interpretation Guideline 5, it is established
law that it is not sufficient to establish that there was a maintenance issue. The Board must also consider whether the
Landlord’s response, once informed of the issue, was




 
timely,
appropriate and effective to remedy the problem. Where this is the case, the Landlord cannot be said to have been in breach of their section
20 obligation to maintain.
 
55.  Section 34 of the Act provides that a tenant is responsible for the repair of undue damage
to the rental unit or residential complex caused by the wilful or negligent
conduct of the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person
permitted in the residential complex by the tenant.
 
56.  The leading case concerning the proper
interpretation of section 20 is the Ontario Court of Appeal decision in Onyskiw
v. CJM Property Management Ltd., 2016 ONCA 477 (Onyskiw). In that decision, the Divisional Court and
the Court of Appeal both upheld the
Board’s determination that the Landlord had not breached its maintenance obligations
under section 20 of the Act. The Court of Appeal found that a finding of
liability is not automatic for every breach of maintenance. It found that the Board may consider the
reasonableness of the landlord’s conduct in deciding whether there has been a
breach of section 20 of the Act. This is
line with the Board’s Interpretation Guideline 5 on Maintenance. The Court of
Appeal further found that an assessment of any delay attributable to ongoing maintenance and repair is not determinative. A contextual analysis should be undertaken to
determine if it is a breach of s. 20 or whether to award an abatement of rent.
 
57.  All of the above are relevant to my
consideration of whether there was a breach by the Landlords of section 20 of the Act,
for all the maintenance issues
alleged by the Tenants.
 
Septic System:
58.  The undisputed facts are that the Landlords
investigated the septic tank issue almost immediately. They were told by the professionals that they hired, that the
septic tank needed to be completely replaced, and they undertook
that work, and paid a considerable
amount of money to have the work done.
 
59.  Nevertheless, the problem continued after
August, 2018. It is undisputed that
the parties agreed not to take extraordinary measures to investigate the issue further
until late Spring or Summer 2019.
 
60.  The parties were in conflict after the
Landlords’ A repair person said that the smell and water pools were a result of
the Tenants’ over use of water for laundry. It
is undisputed that the Landlords took no further
action until they were ordered
to carry out regular pumping of the septic system
by the City By-law people in September, 2019.
 
61.  However, it is also undisputed that the
original septic system problem was eventually discovered to be the result of puncture of a septic
pipe by the Tenants’ installation of a childrens
playground with concrete and in-ground metal rebar at the beginning of
their tenancy in March 2018.
 
62.  It was not proved, by either party,
why there was continued pooling
of water and smell
after the installation of the new septic system in August, 2018.




 
63.  The Tenants suggested that A had faultily
installed the new system, and that they had never obtained the proper permits to install a new septic system.
The Landlords said that they
were ignorant of whether or not A. had properly installed the new system, and
they said that they had been told by A. that they had all the proper permits.
 
64.  In any case, as stated above, for my
determination I must not only consider that there was a maintenance issue, but also whether the Landlord’s response, once informed of the issue, was timely, appropriate and
effective to remedy the problem.
 
65.  I find that the Tenants
proved, on a balance of probabilities, that there was undeniably a maintenance issue, i.e. leaking from a
defective septic system that created unbearable smells and pooling of sewage in
the backyard.
 
66.  The Landlords’ response in the summer of
2018 was timely and appropriate. They
investigated, they pumped
the system twice, before realizing
that this was insufficient,
and then they contracted to wholly replace the system.
 
67.  However,
the Landlords’ response
was not effective. This was either because
there was still leakage from
the earlier puncture of the septic system, or because A. installed a faulty
septic system without the proper permits. The
answer to this was not proved by either party.
 
68.  But I am still bound to consider section 34 of the Act, which is that a tenant is responsible for the repair of undue damage
to the rental unit or residential complex caused by the wilful or negligent
conduct of the tenant.
 
69.  In this case, it is undisputed that the
Tenants installed a childrens playground with concrete and metal rebar. The Landlords proved, on a balance of
probabilities, that this installation severely damaged
the septic system at the beginning of the Tenants’
tenancy, and possibly caused the smell and water pooling that the
Tenants first noticed in June 2018.
 
70.  It may well be that A. carried
out a completely faulty and defective installation of the new septic system that caused further problems. It was also in the self interest of A. to
attribute blame to the Tenants for the continuing problems the following summer of 2019 by saying that the Tenants
were using too much water
for their laundry.
 
71.  However, the Landlords were at all times
acting on the advice of so-called professional “experts”. I find that the Landlords meet the test in
Onyskiw, cited above. They
acted reasonably, and they acted on the advice given by the experts they hired
on a timely basis. They paid a
considerable amount of money to these professionals, who held themselves out as experts
on septic systems,
and they had no way of knowing
whether or not they were competent.
 
72.  The Landlords
acted on the orders of the City by-law when they were told that they were required to continue to pump the
system. The Landlords then contracted
to have the system pumped twice monthly at a further considerable expense.




 
 
 
73.  As a
result of my finding that the Landlords acted reasonably according
to the standards of Onyskiw, and because the Tenants were
responsible for contributory negligence by installing the childrens playground
in the first place, I do not find that the Landlords are responsible to compensate the Tenants
for a breach of maintenance under section 20 of
the Act with respect to the septic system.
Air Conditioning System:
74.  It is undisputed that the Landlords knew about the A/C
as of April or May, 2019. It is also undisputed that the Landlords
did not complete the repair of the A/C until August 3, 2019.
 
75.  The Landlords said that their repair man
told them that the system was not broken, but only that it was not cooling
well. The Tenants said that they
repeatedly asked the Landlords about fixing the problem, and they were forced
to abandon the upper floor of the rental unit as of June 2019 in order to
sleep. They said they purchased fans
and a small A/C unit, but they were able to return the latter, and they are
only seeking the balance of $202.96.
They are also seeking a rent abatement
of 30% for the three months
they allege they were not able to use the upper floor.
 
76.  The A/C system for the upper floor had to
ultimately be replaced. The Landlords
were aware of the problem for at
least 2 ½ months before
they took the problem seriously, after their visit on July 20, 2019.
 
77.  Consequently, I find that the Landlords response was not timely nor appropriate
for 2 ½ months. They did
not fix the problem until 3 months after they were informed about it.
Therefore, I find that the Tenants are entitled to compensation for the
substantial interference with their reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. It is before me to determine what is the
appropriate remedy.
 
78.  An investigation of the high and low
temperatures for May, June, and July, 2019, reveal that there was only one
severely hot day in May, 2019, that went above 26 degrees Celsius. There were at least nine days in June, 2019, when the temperature approached or went above 26 degrees Celsius.
All of July, 2019, was very hot, as were the first three
days of August, 2019. Therefore, I
find that it is credible that the Tenants were not able to use their upper
level for at least 44 days in 2019. The
Tenants’ bedrooms were located on the upper floor, and they were unable to
sleep there for those 44 days.
 
79.  Consequently, I find that it is appropriate
for the Tenants to receive a rent abatement of 30% for 44 days,
or 30% X 101.92 (per diem) X 44 =$1,345.34 for the Landlords’ breach of maintenance of the A/C system.
 
80.  I do not find that the Landlords are
responsible for reimbursing the Tenants for the balance of $202.96 for fans. It would be double compensation, and as
the Landlords’ allege, the Tenants
took the fans with them as their own property
when they departed.




 
Rotten Kitchen
Wall:
81.  I do not find, on a balance of
probabilities, that the Tenants proved that there was a maintenance breach
with respect to the kitchen
wall. Their own evidence was that the Landlords attended to the problem
when they complained about it, by sending a handyman. It was also undisputed that the Landlords fixed the roof in
April 2019.
 
82.  The Tenants were unable to prove how the Landlords’ response to the rotting kitchen
wall was ineffective, nor how they suffered a substantial interference
with their reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit because of it.
 
83.  Consequently, the Tenants’ claim for an abatement as a result of the rotting kitchen
wall is dismissed.
 
Leaking:
84.  It is undisputed that the Landlords responded to the Tenants’ complaint
about leaking in the kitchen by sending a repair person
who fixed the dishwasher hose.
 
85.  I find that It is not established by the
Tenants that the Landlords failed to respond to complaints in June, 2019, about
further leaking after the repair because the Tenants themselves called in a plumber who replaced the garburetor, which had been found to be
the source of the further leaking.
 
86.  The Tenants paid $929.99 for the
replacement of the garburetor and plumbing repairs. The Landlords have offered
to reimburse the Tenants for this repair,
and they will be so ordered.
 
87.  The Tenants said that they could not use
the basement, and had to seal it off in June 2019, until they left in March 2020. They said that they lost items in the
basement due to leaking and soaking, including children’s toys, art, and they
had to pay over $200.00 to clean a carpet.
 
88.  The Tenants had no photographic evidence of
their damaged items, nor communications to the
Landlords about the need to seal off the basement. They also had no documentary evidence of requesting the
Landlords to repair or replace these items. Nor
did the Tenants have an itemized list of exactly what was damaged, nor any
evidence that they had attempted to mitigate any damage.
 
89.  I find that the Tenants have not proved, on
a balance of probabilities, that the Landlords breached their maintenance obligation with respect to leaking in the basement,
except for the limited fact
that leaking motivated the Tenants to hire their own plumber, without
authorization from the Landlords, to replace the garburetor.




 
Walter Filtration
90.  The Tenants asked the Landlords, at the
beginning of their tenancy, to provide documentation of how and when the water filtration system had been serviced. The Landlords never provided this.
 
91.  The Tenants allege
that they were never told how to maintain the water filtration system, that the water was therefore foul, and they were
obliged to purchase bottled water for drinking and cooking.
 
92.  The Landlords said that they were never
informed about a problem with the water filtration system.
 
93.  I find that
the evidence proves, on a
balance of probabilities, that the Tenants were never informed about
how to take care of the water filtration system, and it is undisputed that the
Landlords did not maintain the water filtration system during the tenancy. However, the Tenants failed to prove, on a balance
of probabilities, that there was any problem
with the water as a result of the failure to maintain the water
filtration system.
 
94.  Although the Tenants had documentary
evidence about asking the Landlords for documentation about how and when the filtration system
had been serviced, they had no further evidence, photographic or
documentary, about a problem with the water in the rental unit. They had no communications to the
Landlords asking how to service the filtration system, or communication that
informed the Landlords that the water was foul. They had no evidence that they
had informed the Landlords that they were using bottled water because of the
foul water.
 
95.  The Tenants’ claim for a remedy with respect to water filtration will be dismissed.
 
Conclusion:
 
96.  Therefore, I find that the Landlords failed
to meet the Landlords' obligations under subsection 20(1) of the Act to repair
maintain the rental unit, and they failed to comply with health, safety, housing
or maintenance standards
with respect to the air conditioning
in the summer of 2019, and the leaking that required replacing the garburetor
in June 2019.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Tenants’
T2 application is dismissed.
 
2.    
The Landlords
shall pay to the Tenants
a rent abatement for the A/C issues of
$1,345.344.
 
3.    
The repairs and
replacement of the garburetor that was done by the Tenants to remediate the basement leaking is authorized, at an amount of $929.99. The Landlords
shall pay to the Tenants $929.99.




 
 
 
4.    
The Landlords
shall also pay the Tenants
$50.00 for the cost of filing the
application.
 
5.    
The total amount the Landlords owe the Tenants
is $2,325.33.
 
6.    
The Landlords shall pay the Tenants the full amount
owing by January
16, 2022.
 
7.    
If the Landlords do not
pay the Tenants the full amount owing by January 16, 2022 the Landlords will owe interest.
This will be simple interest
calculated from January
17, 2022 at 2.00% annually on
the outstanding balance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
January 5, 2022 Date Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite
700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

