Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-07
File number:	
TNT-30188-21

Citation:	Powell v 22 Tinder Inc., 2022 CanLII 56662 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq1c7>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
30
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-30188-21
TNT-32956-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


409, 22 TINDER
CRESCENT NORTH YORK ON M4A1L6


 




Between:


Crystal Powell


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


22 Tinder Inc.


Landlord



 
 
 
Crystal Powell
(the 'Tenant') applied
for an order determining that Elena Karguina
and 22 Tinder Inc (the 'Landlord') failed to meet the Landlord’s
maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety, housing or maintenance
standards (The ‘T6’ application).The Tenant also applied for an order
determining the Landlord Canada Inc. (the 'Landlord') interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the
Tenant.(The ‘T2’ application).
 
These applications were heard together, along with the Landlord’s application, TNL-324425-21, by video conference December 9, 2021.
 
22 Tinder
Inc. was represented at the hearing
by its owners Steven Bloom and Michael
Langer. Elena Karguina attended the hearing. The Tenant attended the
hearing along with her representative Yasmin Van Maurik.
 
Determinations:
 
1.   
This matter
consists of two applications brought
by the Tenant. Application TNT-30188-21 alleges several maintenance
issues. Application TNT-32956-21 alleges that the Landlord interfered with the
Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. Both applications are
based on the same substantive allegations regarding various issues with the
rental unit’s condition.
 
 
Preliminary Issue
 
1.    
Prior to the hearing
commencing Ms. Kargunia advised she was not a Landlord, but rather an employee of the Landlord. The Tenant did not
disagree. As a result, the application is amended to remove Elena Kargunia as a
party.




 
Health, Safety and Maintenance Standards
 
2.    
Section 20 (1) of the Act
states:
 
A landlord is
responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in it, in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with
health, safety, housing and maintenance standards.
 
3.    
In Onyskiw v. CJM
Property Management Ltd., 2016 ONCA 477 (CanLII), the Court of Appeal
rejected the idea that any service interruption amounts to an automatic breach
of the Act. Instead, the Court held that the Board must undertake a “contextual
analysis” in each case, looking at all the facts before finding whether a
landlord has breached its maintenance obligations.
As part of the analysis,
the Court directed
the Board to examine the essential nature of a
tenant’s complaints and what steps, if any, were taken by the landlord. A
landlord will not have breached the Act if, after a contextual analysis, the
Board determines that the Landlord’s response was reasonable in the
circumstances. For the reasons that
follow, I find that the Landlord breached its maintenance obligations in
respect of four distinct issues.
 
4.    
The Tenant’s
first complaint relates
to bedroom and living room wall cracks.
The Tenant supplied photos
showing the cracks in the wall.
 
5.    
Michael Langer, on
behalf of the Landlord, did not disagree that cracks in the wall exist. He attempted
to justify the non-repair by stating the cracks were cosmetic and were there when the tenancy commenced. I reject
the Landlord’s submission on this point.
 
6.    
First, the photos
establish that cracks in the wall are beyond cosmetic. Second, section 20(2) states
that a landlord’s maintenance obligations apply even if the tenant
was aware of the state of
non-repair. Thus, regardless of when the cracks first appeared, it is the
Landlord’s obligation under the Act make sure the unit is in a good
state of repair. Mr. Langer’s
testimony indicates he knew about the cracks as early as 2019, and they have
not been repaired. I am satisfied the Landlord is in breach of section 20 (1)
of the Act in relation to the cracks in the wall—they are not in a good
state of repair.
 
7.    
The second allegation
involves the wooden floor. The Tenant supplied photographs showing the cracking and discoloration of the wooden
floor. The Tenant
testified that she would get slivers in her feet due the
floors state of disrepair.
 
8.    
Again, Mr. Langer did
not disagree with the Tenant. Instead he tried minimizing the impact to the Tenant.
He submitted that the floor is not in a state of disrepair and it
is more of an inconvenience to the Tenant. I
do not agree.
 
9.    
The photographs
establish that the floor is in a state of disrepair. The Tenants testimony is
she can not walk around with bare feet without getting slivers. While section
20 of the Act does not require
perfection, the floor
of a unit must be in a state
of repair such that its occupants can walk with bare feet without risking
injury. I find that the floors are in a state
of disrepair. I am satisfied the
Landlord is aware of state of the floor. This is more than an inconvenience.




 
 
 
10.  The third allegation involves the kitchen
faucet. The Tenant
has no (hot) water.
She must use the hot water in
her bathtub to the do dishes. The Tenant testified she let the Landlord know
her faucet was broken November 19, 2020.
 
11.  Mr. Langer acknowledged that the faucet
is broken. He stated that it would be no problem
to get someone into the unit to replace it. Based
on Mr. Langer’s admission, I am satisfied the Landlord is in breach of its
obligations related to the kitchen faucet. While
not every maintenance problem is an automatic
breach, I find in this case that the
that the faucet was broken, and their
failure to take reasonable steps to repair the issue is unreasonable.
Accordingly, I find that the Landlord breached its maintenance obligations
under the Act in relation to the kitchen faucet.
 
12.  The fourth issue relates to a leak in the
bedroom ceiling and living room. The Tenant testified she first advised
the Landlord of the
leak on April 26, 2019. The Tenant
supplied several photographs showing
the leaks. As a result, of the leaking,
the Tenant had to put her belongings in waterproof
containers. The Tenant acknowledges the Landlord did make the necessary
repairs, but not until March 30, 2021.
 
13.  Mr. Bloom acknowledges the leaks. He states he could not a get contractor to repair the problem sooner because of the Covid-19
pandemic.
 
14.  A rental unit with a leaky roof is not in a
state of good repair, particularly where it is significant enough that the
occupant must place their belongings in waterproof containers. It is uncontested by the parties
that the leaking
has resolved. However,
I find the Landlord’s response to be unreasonable in the circumstances.
I accept the Tenant’s evidence that
they notified the Landlord of the problem in April 2019, which I note predates
the onset of the pandemic by a number of months. The problem was first brought
to Landlord’s attention in 2019. The Landlord had plenty of time to fix the
leaks prior to the pandemic. Any delays in fixing the leaks result from the
Landlord not addressing the problem sooner. According I find the Landlord was
in breach of its obligations regarding the leaking from April 26, 2019 until
March 30, 2021.
 
Remedy
 
15.  Subsection 30(2) of the Act states: “In
determining the remedy under this section, the Board shall consider whether the
tenant or former tenant advised the landlord of the alleged breaches
before applying to the Board.”
This section of the Act was intended
to reflect case law basically stating that if a landlord does not know
about a particular disrepair problem then the landlord cannot and should not be
held financially liable for failing to address it.




 
16.  Additionally, in accordance with section 16 of the Act, when a landlord
becomes liable to pay any amount because of a breach of
subsection 20(1), the tenant has a duty to take reasonable steps to minimize
the loss.
 
17.  The Tenant requested an order requiring the
Landlord to remedy the ongoing maintenance issues. The Tenant also requested a 20% rent abatement as a remedy
for the various breaches.
 
18.  The Landlord submitted
that they were willing to replace the faucet but was unwilling to repair the cracks in the wall or the floor. Mr. Langer and Mr. Bloom believe they have
been prudent landlords. They have spent a lot of money to repair the roof and
the brickwork. They also note that the Tenant refuses to pay her rent.
 
19.  The Tenant’s non-payment of rent does not
relieve the Landlord of its maintenance obligations under the Act. I have found there to be several
longstanding and ongoing breaches of the Act dating back to 2019. Numerous
photographs entered into evidence established
that the issues regarding the floor, faucet and cracks were not addressed in a
timely or reasonable manner. The Tenant’s testimony was largely unchallenged. I find the Tenant continues to be impacted be
the Landlord’s breaches of the Act.
 
20.  Accordingly, given that the maintenance issues
giving rise to the breaches
I have found are still, except for the leaky roof, ongoing, I will
order the Landlord to remedy those issues.
 
21.  Abatement is a contractual remedy. It
reflects the idea that rent is for a bundle of goods and services, and if a
tenant is not receiving all services that they contracted for, he or she is entitled to an abatement
that is proportional to the difference. Assessing quantum is
something of an art and will vary based on several factors including the nature
of the problem, the length of time or frequency of the breach, and the impact
on the Tenant.
 
22.  In terms of the time period for which the
Tenant is entitled to a remedy, in Toronto
Community Housing Corp. v. Vlahovich, [2010] O.J. No. 1463 (Vlahovich), the Divisional
Court, confirmed that a remedy under s. 30 cannot go back farther than the
one-year period prior to the filing of the application. The Tenant filed their
application on January 21, 2021.
 
23.  At first glance,
therefore, the Tenant is limited to a remedy
covering the period as far back
as January 21, 2020. However, on March 20, 2020, pursuant to an order under
the Emergency Order Management and Civil Protection Act, Ontario
suspended limitation periods
established under Ontario legislation. The suspension commenced on March 16,
2020 and ended on (and included) September 13, 2020. Following the Court’s
reasoning in Vlahovich, I find that the period for which a Tenant may
seek a remedy before the Board was extended
by the Emergency Order as well. This finding is consistent with well- established jurisprudence that the Act is remedial legislation, and that its provisions ought to be interpreted broadly and
liberally to ensure that residential tenants are protected in accordance with
the Act. As a result, I find that the “clock stopped running” on the
Tenant’s remedial
period during the suspension of limitation periods.




 
 
 
24.  According
to my calculation, therefore, the Board may grant a remedy covering
the period as far back as
July 21, 2019 Despite numerous complaints to the Landlord and the Landlord’s
agents, the disrepair issues were not and mostly have not been addressed The
Tenant has had to live in a rental unit with multiple maintenance issues as a
result. While
most of the issues may have had little impact on the Tenant’s ability to
normally reside in the rental unit, the totality of the issues and the length
of time the Tenant has had to live the issues,
in my view, warrant a 15% abatement
in rent. I have ordered the outstanding repairs to be completed by January 31, 2021.
Accordingly, the Tenant is entitled
to a rent a 15% rent abatement from July 21, 2019 until January 31, 2021.
 
25.  The Tenant also seeks $157.21 for
out-of-pocket expenses for the purchase of the waterproof totes. Given that the
Tenant purchased these bins as a direct result of the Landlord’s failure
to fix the roof in a timely
way, I find them to constitute reasonable out- of-pocket expenses. The Landlord shall reimburse the Tenant
accordingly.
 
The T2 Application
 
26.  The grounds raised in the T2 application are substantively the same grounds that formed the basis for this application, which alleges that the
maintenance issues established above substantially interfered with the Tenant’s
enjoyment of the rental unit. In
arriving at the remedies, I
have awarded above for the maintenance issues, I have accounted for
the impact
those breaches had on the Tenant’s enjoyment of the rental
unit. As a result, I need not consider this application.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
Elena Karguina
is removed as a party to these applications.
 
2.    
Tenant application, TNT-32956-21, is dismissed.
 
3.    
On or before January
31, 2022, the Landlord
shall repair or replace as necessary the following items to ensure they ate in
a good state of repair: the kitchen faucet, the wooden floor, and the cracks in
the living room and bedroom walls.
 
4.    
The Landlord
shall pay the Tenant a rent abatement of $4,779, which represents a 15% rent abatement
for the period of July 21, 2019 to January 31, 2022.
 
5.    
If the Landlord does
not complete the work required by paragraph 3 of this Order by January 31, 2022, the Tenant is authorized to arrange for the repair or replacement of the listed items to bring them into a good state of repair, and
may recover the reasonable cost of any such repair or replacement by deducting
it from the rent paid after in the month(s) after the repair(s) or replacement(s) are done until there is no longer
any money owing.




 
6.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenant
$157.21 for the reasonable out-of-pocket expenses
the Tenant has incurred because of the Landlord’s failure to repair/maintain
the rental unit.
 
7.    
The Landlord
shall also pay the Tenant $48.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
8.    
The total amount the
Landlord owes the Tenant as a result
of this Order is $4984.21 The amount owning to the Tenant shall be applied to the rent arrears owed to the Landlord
as found in corresponding application TNL-32425-21, which was heard at the same
time as these applications.
 
 
January 07, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Bryan Delorenzi
 
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite
700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

