Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-17
File number:	
TNT-26577-20

Citation:	Muhammed v Miller, 2022 CanLII 63759 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jqprf>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 



 


Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act,
2006


 




 


File Number: TNT-26577-20




 
In the matter
  of:


 
1903,
  390 DIXON ROAD ETOBICOKE ON M9R1T4


 




Between:


El-alamein Shah
Muhammed


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Veronica Miller


Landlord



 
 
 
El-alamein Shah Muhammed (the 'Tenant') applied
for an order determining that Veronica Miller (the 'Landlord') or the Landlord's
agent(s):
 
•        
harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the Tenant,
•        
entered the rental unit illegally,
•        
altered the locking system
on a door giving entry to the rental unit or residential complex without giving the Tenant replacement keys,
•        
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or by a
member of the Tenant's household, and
•        
withheld or deliberately interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital service
that the Landlord is
obligated to supply under the tenancy agreement.
 
This application was heard
by video conference on October 21, 2021.
 
The Tenant, the Tenant's
Legal Representative Chris
Williams and the Landlord attended
the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.       
The Tenant applied for an order
granting the application and awarding the Tenant
$5,900.00 in compensation and costs because
the Landlord breached
sections 20, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26 of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’).
 
2.       
The Landlord requests that the application be dismissed.
 
3.       
The apartment is a condominium
unit which was owned at the relevant
times by the Landlord and rented
to the Tenant pursuant to a residential tenancy agreement. The Tenant has resided in the rental unit
since September 1, 2011.




 
4.       
The monthly rent is $1,150.00.
 
The Evidence of the Tenant
 
5.       
The Tenant testified that on March
4, 2020 the Landlord asked him for the keys to the rental unit,
because she had lost her key and needed
to copy it. He told the Landlord
that he would comply.
Before he could
do so, on March 6, 2020 the Landlord entered
the unit, without proper
written notice, and changed the locks. The Tenant was not present in the unit
at the time. The Landlord left the new entry key on the floor in the hallway in
front of the entry door.
 
6.       
On March 7, 2020, the Landlord
texted him to inform him that someone
would be arriving that day to drop off kitchen
cabinets in the unit. He testified that contractors did attend, bringing
replacement kitchen cabinets into the unit. During that entry, the contractors
“demolished” his kitchen by removing the existing cabinets.
 
7.       
The Landlord never provided
him with any written notice
of the proposed renovations to the unit, he said.
She simply gave him verbal
notice with a short
turn around time frame
that she was going to commence the renovation. She told him that she would have
the kitchen repairs completed in approximately one week.
 
8.       
The Tenant testified that the kitchen
cupboards have not been replaced
or repaired since. He presented photographs
of the disrepair which he took on March 11, 2020
and May 27, 2020. The photographs depict the
kitchen in a substantial state of disrepair. There are numerous cupboards
situated throughout the unit on the floors of the living areas. The kitchen
sink is lying on the floor. Various amounts of debris from the old kitchen are
visible. The kitchen drywall has been removed.
Only two new cupboards above the stove have been installed. No recent photographs of the state of the unit were submitted by the
Tenant.
 
9.       
He testified that he has not been
able to fully utilize the kitchen for 17 months. He has had no access to the
water supply in the kitchen. He uses the bathroom faucets to access
water to prepare
meals and wash up. He states that he has a functional stove and
refrigerator but otherwise has no use of the kitchen. He will cook sometimes at
home but mostly he dines at a restaurant or at the home of friends because of
this aggravation.
 
The Evidence of the Landlord
 
10.   
The Landlord testified that she
has renovated the whole unit, except the kitchen. When she was ready to
renovate the kitchen, she arranged for the contractors to attend the Tenant’s
unit. The start date was March 7, 2020. She stated that she gave the Tenant
advance notice. While the Tenant allowed entry on March 7th, she said that he refused to allow the contractors to
install the cabinets because he was unhappy that the cabinets were not new. He became animated
and aggressive with the contractors. The contractors
contacted the Landlord to inform her that they could not complete the work. As
a result, all of the cabinets were placed together in a corner of the unit.




 
11.   
She testified that when she
attended at the unit, the Tenant told her that she could not enter because
there was a court order prohibiting her from entering. She asked him to produce the order but he declined.
The Tenant told her
that he would, though, allow the
contractors in to install the cabinets.
 
12.    The Landlord stated that the Tenant contacted
the property standards
department of the municipality to complain about substandard living conditions. She
testified that a person from the
property standards department informed her that they had investigated and
closed the file. Specifically, she said, the person told her that the Tenant
had functioning kitchen
appliances and this was satisfactory during the renovations.
 
13.    The Landlord’s position
is that the work has not been completed because
the Tenant has persistently refused entry into the
unit. Her testimony on this point was confusing, and vague with respect to
dates and times. She seems to believe that she did not have to complete the repairs once the Tenant had filed the T2 application and pending a hearing by the Board. The Landlord did not dispute
that the kitchen
cupboards remain uninstalled to date.
 
14.    She indicated that she paid the condominium
corporation $327.00 to have someone remove the contractors’ debris which had been left in the unit but she did not provide
a date when this occurred.
 
15.    The Landlord testified that she sold the condominium unit in July 2020.
 
Analysis
 
16.   
The Landlord failed to present
evidence of proper Notices of Entry to refute the Tenant’s claims. Neither did
she present any documentary evidence to establish that she had removed the debris from the unit. I have no reason
to doubt the Landlord’s testimony with respect to removing the debris, which I presume occurred
before she sold the property. The Tenant did not dispute the Landlord’s
testimony about the debris.
 
17.    Neither party presented any witnesses in support of their positions.
 
18.    The Tenant stated that the Landlord has been harassing
him for a long time with a purpose of evicting
him. Other than his testimony, insufficient evidence was presented to establish this claim, and as a result
this claim is denied.
 
19.   
I
am not satisfied that the
Landlord altered the locking system on a door giving
entry to the rental
unit or residential complex without
giving the Tenant
replacement keys. This claim is denied.
 
20.    The Tenant failed
to establish that the Landlord
withheld or deliberately interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital service.
Therefore, this claim cannot succeed.
 
21.   
Based on the evidence
of both parties
and absent any evidence to the
contrary, I find that the
Landlord entered the rental unit illegally on March 6, 2020 and again on March
7, 2020.




 
22.   
With respect to the claim of
substantial interference, the testimony of each party about the facts was
reasonably credible if lacking in some specifics. It was apparent from the
Landlord’s testimony that the Tenant chose to leave out certain material facts
about his own conduct which tends to shed some doubt about
whether I have been presented with all of the relevant facts.
 
23.    On the other hand, the Landlord failed to support her
position with objective evidence or witness
testimony. The Landlord’s explanations about why the cabinets
were not installed were inconsistent and
questionable, at best.
 
24.    The issue before me is whether the Landlord
substantially interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the unit pursuant
to section 22 of the Act, by failing to repair the kitchen cupboards in a timely and
effective manner as required by section 20 of the Act.
 
25.   
Based on the evidence
before me, I find that the Landlord
failed to comply with her repair
obligations under the Act and, in doing, so has substantially interfered with
the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the rental premises.
 
26.   
The Tenant seeks $4,600.00 as a compensatory remedy, which represents a 100% abatement of
rent for a period of four months, expressed as a ‘global’ amount.
 
27.    The parties agree that the Tenant was able to use the
stove and refrigerator in the kitchen. The Tenant testified that the
interference was related to having no access to water in the kitchen, no access
to a food preparation area, the annoyance of having kitchen cabinets
obstructing his living area and the reduction of his living space as a result.
I note from the photographs that there is minimal space to store food and
kitchen items. While I am mindful
of these limitations, I am of the view that the abatement
amount sought by the Tenant is excessive.
 
28.    The Tenant seeks $1,000.00 in out of expenses for meals
outside the home.
No receipts were provided
to the Board to support these expenses. He testified that he
shared meals with friends on many
occasions. He did not explain why he felt it necessary to purchase meals outside the home and was unclear about how often he expended money to do so. The Tenant
was able to cook and refrigerate food and he could not demonstrate
why this significant, apparently
almost daily, expense was reasonable in the circumstances. I appreciate that it
was inconvenient to lack a fully functional kitchen and I include a nominal
amount for these out of pocket expenses in an abatement of rent.
 
29.    The Tenant also seeks $300.00
in general damages
for mental distress
because
the Landlord failed to comply with her statutory obligations. He testified
that living in these
conditions has had an adverse impact on his health and quality of life.
 
30.   
An abatement of rent is the most
common remedy in these kinds of situations. It
is intended to reflect the idea that if a tenant is paying rent for a bundle of
goods and services and not receiving everything being paid for, then the tenant
is entitled to monetary compensation proportional to the difference between what is being paid and
what is being received in goods and services.




 
31.   
Pursuant to subsection 31(1)(f) of
the Act, the Board has the authority to award compensatory damages for pain and
suffering where there is an intangible loss of enjoyment of life and which results
from the Landlord’s breach of contractual obligations (Mejia v. Cargini, [2007] O.J. No.437
(Div. Ct.)). The claim should be supported by objective evidence given the
seriousness of the claim.
 
32.    There is no evidence that the Tenant sought medical
advice and treatment because of the significant stress he claims to have experienced
directly as a result of the Landlord’s breach. No medical evidence
was presented by the
Tenant indicating an emotional injury with a causal connection to the Landlord’s breach, or to confirm the
mental distress suffered by the Tenant.
I am satisfied that the impact of the breach
on the Tenant is appropriately
covered under an abatement of rent.
 
33.    Additionally, the Tenant
seeks $700.00 for the cost of legal
representation at the hearing.
Pursuant to section 204 of the Act, the Board may order a party to pay the costs of another party where the party has
engaged in unreasonable conduct.
 
34.    The Tenant has not established that the Landlord’s
conduct was unreasonable. The Tenant’s reason for requesting
costs is that his limited
income does not permit him to
afford the expense of legal representation. The Tenant’s request does not meet
the requirements of the statutory test.
 
35.   
I
find that, in all the circumstances, a 10% abatement of rent for a period of 17 months for substantial interference is warranted.
The Landlord shall pay the Tenant $1,955.00. This amount includes a nominal
amount for out-of-pocket expenses incurred.
 
36.   
The Tenant is entitled
to a 5% abatement for the 3-month
period between March 6, 2020 and June 6, 2020 in relation
to the debris left by the contractors in the unit. The Landlord
shall pay the Tenant $172.50.
 
37.   
The Landlord shall pay the Tenant
$500.00 as compensation for the two unlawful entries on March 6 and March 7, 2020.
 
38.   
This order contains all of the reasons for my decision
within it. No further reasons
shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.       
The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant a rent abatement of $2,627.50.
 
2.       
The Landlords shall also pay the Tenant $50.00
towards the cost of filing the application.
 
3.       
The total amount the Landlord owes is $2,677.50.
 
4.       
The Landlord shall pay the Tenant
the full amount owing by January 28, 2022.




 
5.       
If the Landlord does not pay the
Tenant the full amount owing by January 28, 2022, the Tenant will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from January
29, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
6.       
The Tenant has the right, at any time, to collect
the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 




 
January 17, 2022


     Elle Venhola         




Date Issued                                                                      Elle Venhola
Member, Landlord and Tenant
Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East, Suite 700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

