Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-07
File number:	
TNT-28396-20

Citation:	Sumner v Hamed, 2022 CanLII 122667 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp4w>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-28396-20
 
 
In the matter of:      804, 3460 KEELE STREET
TORONTO ON M3J1L9
 
Between:                  Monica Sumner                                    Tenant
 
 
and
 
Mahmoud Hamed                                                                                                                Landlord
 
 
 
Monica Sumner (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Mahmoud Hamed (the
'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the
Tenant.
 
This
application was heard by videoconference on
October 14, 2021. The Landlord, Landlord’s Legal
Representative, Ned Bozalo, and the Tenant attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Tenant testified that:
 
i)                   
On September 2, 2020, the Landlord
told her that she needs
to start paying
$500.00 more monthly rent because her boyfriend comes over. The Landlord again requested $500.00 more on September
14, 2020 in front of others causing the Tenant embarrassment.
 
ii)                 
On September 26,
2020, the Tenant could not unlock her door. She told the Landlord, but the
Landlord did not do anything. The Tenant’s boyfriend called the locksmith who
had to replace the lock at a cost of $320.00. The Landlord refused to re-imburse the Tenant for the
locksmith. The Landlord was yelling at the Tenant and her boyfriend in the
hallway, in front of the Tenant’s daughter which made it uncomfortable for her
and her daughter to continue living there. She eventually moved out by
agreement on February 1, 2022.
 
iii)                
At the beginning
of March 2020, when the Tenant went to deliver her rent, the Landlord told the
Tenant that she would have to move out because his daughter would be moving
into the rental unit. When the Tenant requested an N12 from the Landlord he
refused.




 
2.    
The Landlord denies
demanding additional rent from the Tenant, yelling at the Tenant and her boyfriend. The Landlord also
denies telling the Tenant he required the unit for his daughter to move in.
With regards to the lock incident, the Landlord takes the position that the Tenant hired a locksmith without
first informing or getting approval from him.
 
3.    
On any
application before the Board, the person who alleges any particular incident or
event occurred has the burden of leading sufficient evidence to establish that
it is more likely than not that their version of events is true. In this case
that burden falls on the Tenant.
 
4.    
In deciding this
application, it is necessary to assess the credibility of the parties in order
to determine which story makes the most reasonable sense in all the
circumstances.
 
5.    
I found the
Tenant’s testimony to be credible and reliable. Her testimony was consistent
throughout. She was non-evasive and unshaken on cross-examination. On the other
hand, the Landlord’s testimony contained a contradiction which, in my view,
calls into question the reliability and credibility of the Landlord’s evidence.
The Landlord denied telling the Tenant she needs to move out because his
daughter would be moving in. The Landlord also submitted an affidavit which,
among other things, swears this. However, the
Tenant produced an audio recording between her and the Landlord in which the
parties discuss serving the Tenant an N12 because their daughter would be
coming back at the “end of May beginning of June”. This was in direct
contradiction to what the Landlord testified to and swore to under oath. In
addition to this contradiction, the Landlord was argumentative and evasive on
cross-examination further calling into question the reliability and credibility
of his evidence. Therefore, I give more weight and prefer the Tenant’s
testimony over the Landlord’s.
 
6.    
Next, I must
determine whether the Landlord’s conduct harassed, obstructed, coerced,
threatened or interfered with the Tenant. I find that the Landlord’s conduct
viewed in its entirety through the lens of a reasonable person harassed,
obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the Tenant.
 
7.    
Although evicting
a tenant for the landlord’s personal use is grounds to evict a tenant under the
Act, I find that in this case telling the Tenant she needed to move out for the
Landlord’s daughter to move in was a threat to evict based on false or
misleading information. I say this because the Landlord had no real intention
for his daughter to move into the
rental unit. He never served the Tenant with an N12 even after requests from
the Tenant. After the Tenant moved out, there was no evidence to suggest that
the Landlord’s daughter moved in or that there was
a change in the Landlord’s circumstances preventing the daughter
from moving in. I infer from this that the Landlord had no intention of having his daughter move in
the first place. Rather, this was likely done in an attempt to get the Tenant
to move.




 
8.    
In TST-62367-15,
the Member states “generally speaking harassment is usually considered to be a
course of conduct that a reasonable person knows or ought to know would be
unwelcome”. I am persuaded by this definition. The Landlord harassed the Tenant
by repeatedly requesting additional rent from the Tenant after being told no
and by yelling and screaming at the
Tenant and her boyfriend in the hallway. The Landlord ought to have known that
this conduct would be unwelcome.
 
9.    
Finally, the
Landlord’s failure call a locksmith when the Tenant was locked out of her
rental unit constitutes obstruction. This impeded the Tenant’s ability to get
into her rental unit.
 
Remedy
 
10. 
The Tenant requests an order for:
 
i)                   
6 months rent
abatement in the amount of $6,810.00 for the embarrassment and harassment caused by the Landlord.
 
ii)                 
The landlord to stop the activities.
 
iii)                
Costs to repair
or replace the Tenant’s property that was damaged, destroyed or disposed of because of the Landlord’s
actions.
 
11. 
An abatement
recognises the idea that a tenant is paying rent for a bundle of goods and
services and if the tenant is not receiving everything being paid for then he
or she is entitled to abatement proportional to the difference between what is
being paid for and what is being received. I accept the Tenant’s testimony that
from March 2020 to the date of filing her application (September 28, 2020), the
actions of her Landlord created an environment where she was prevented from
receiving a place to live free from harassment, threats, obstruction and
interference from the Landlord. I also accept the Tenant’s testimony that being
informed that she needed to move in March 2020, during the initial stages of
the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdowns, would have caused her stress and fear. For
these reasons, the Tenant is entitled to an abatement. In line with similar
decisions of the Board, a rent abatement of 5 percent for the 7 months period
(March-September 2020) is appropriate. This amounts to a total abatement of
$397.25.
 
12. 
The Tenant no longer
lives at the residential complex. Therefore, the remedy
for Landlord to stop the
activities is moot.
 
13. 
While the lock is
not the Tenant’s property, I take this requested remedy to mean that the Tenant
is requesting the Board order the Landlord to pay her out of pocket costs for
having to hire a locksmith. The Tenant submitted an invoice from Locksmith
Services in the amount of $350.00. Based
on my experience with the Board, I find this cost is




 
reasonable and was incurred
by the Tenant. Therefore, the Tenant is entitled to this
amount.
 
14. 
This order
contains all of the reasons for the decision within it and no further reasons
will be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord shall
pay to the Tenant $397.25 which represents the rent abatement for the 7 months’ period, from March 2020 to
September 2020.
 
2.    
The Landlord
shall also pay to the Tenant $350.00. This represents the reasonable costs that the Tenant has incurred as a result
of the Landlord's actions.
 
3.    
The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant $48.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
4.    
The total amount the Landlord owes is $795.25.
 
5.    
The Landlord shall pay the Tenant the full amount owing by February
28, 2022.
 
6.    
If the Landlord
does not pay the Tenant the full amount owing by February 28, 2022, the Tenant
will owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from March 1, 2022
at 2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
7.    
The Tenant has
the right, at any time, to collect the full amount owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
February 7, 2022                                                                   
 Date Issued                                                                     Khalid Akram
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East,
Suite 700, 7th Floor
Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

