Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
TNT-12441-19

Citation:	TNT-12441-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 54194 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpx72>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
30 and 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-12441-19
 
 
 
 
 
SR (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that CLP (the
'Landlord') had not repaired or maintained the rental unit or the residential
complex, or has not complied with health, safety, housing or maintenance
standards (the ‘T6 application’). The Tenant also applied for an order
determining that the Landlord substantially interfered with his reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex or with the reasonable
enjoyment of a member of the Tenant’s household (the ‘T2 application’).
 
The hearing
was held by videoconference on October 7, 2021
 
The Tenant
attended the hearing and called as a witness VK (the ‘Superintendent’). The Landlord was represented by GP
and called as a witness LWT (the ‘Neighbour in Unit XXX’) and MM (the
‘Property Manager’).
 
Determinations:
 
1.   
These applications are about the Tenant’s complaints of offensive noise,
odours and smells, and the
Landlord’s obligations to address Tenant complaints pertaining to maintenance
of the rental unit, and a Tenant’s right to reasonable enjoyment.
 
2.   
For the reasons that follow, the Tenant’s T2 and T6 applications are dismissed.




 
PRELIMINARY MATTERS
 
3.   
The Tenant
raised one preliminary issue:
 
(a) Request to Include Documentary Evidence that had not been sent to the Board
 
4.   
The Tenant’s
request to be permitted to include documentary evidence that had yet to be
submitted to the Board was denied.
 
5.   
The Tenant explained
that he had a large volume of evidence specifically, video footage, he wished
to rely on at the hearing which he was informed by the Tribunal’s customer
service officers were to be submitted using the Ontario Government Attachment
Service (EATS). However, since
his application was filed, and given the interruption created
by the COVID-19 pandemic, he
was delayed in accessing the EATS system. As such, he requested that he be
permitted to rely upon this evidence at the hearing. The Tenant confirmed that
he disclosed the evidence to the Landlord’s legal representative.
 
6.   
The Landlords legal
representative acknowledged that his office received many emails from the
Tenant with accompanying attachments but objected to this new video evidence on the grounds that disclosure was to be provided seven days before
the Hearing and they had not received this additional
evidence.
 
7.   
I advised
the Tenant and Landlord
that, as of the date of this hearing, the evidence in question was not available to the
Board.
 
8.   
Rule 19.1 and 19.2 of the Board’s Rules
of Procedure that came into force on September
1, 2021 outlines the rules pertaining to disclosure and evidence as follows:
 
 



“19.1


Unless the LTB has directed or
  ordered otherwise, all parties to a matter that has been scheduled for a CMH or a hearing must provide the
  other parties and the LTB with a copy of all documents, pictures
  and other evidence that the party intends to rely upon at least 7 days
  before the CMH or
  hearing . The evidence must be provided to the other parties using
  one of the methods of service identified in the RTA or Rule 3.




19.2


Where a party has provided evidence in
  accordance with Rule 19.1, the other parties must provide any responding
  documents, pictures and other evidence that the party intends
to rely upon to the other parties
and the LTB at least 5 days
before the scheduled CMH or hearing.”
[Emphasis added]



9.   
Furthermore, Rule A4.2 of the Rules
states:
 
“The tribunal may vary or waive the
application of any rule or procedure, on its own initiative or on the
request of a party, except where to do so is prohibited by legislation or a
specific rule.”
 
10. Including the Tenant’s late disclosure
would be prejudicial to the Landlord who did not have the opportunity to
prepare for the Hearing with the benefit of these items at hand. Moreover, I also considered the prejudicial impact
this late disclosure would have on the
Board’s obligation to conduct a fair, just and expeditious resolution of the dispute, as the




 
Board was not provided
with the disclosure in enough time to ensure
they were ready for this hearing.
 
11. Taking into consideration the Tenant’s request,
the potential prejudice
that each party may
experience, and the power of the Board under Rule A4.2, the request was denied.
 
12. The Landlord raised
one preliminary issue:
 
(a) Request to Dismiss the Tenant’s T2 and T6 applications under section 197(1)
of the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’)
 
13.
Counsel for the Landlord
submitted that the Tenant’s T2 and T6 applications
should be dismissed under section 197 (1) of the
Act without holding a hearing. This request
was denied.
 
14. The Landlord advanced the position that
both the T2 and T6 applications were vague, lacked specific details and
particulars including specific times and dates that the alleged interferences had take place. Furthermore, the Landlord is also of the view that there is
no reasonable cause of action under either application and the evidence
submitted by the Tenant does not pertain to the allegations pled in either
application and, as such, the Board’s reliance on the same would be an error in
law, if that was the case.
 
15. In support of the Landlord’s position,
counsel cited three cases. The first case was Ball v. Metro Capital Property
[2002] O.J. No. 5931 wherein the court stated that the pleadings should
contain dates, times of the alleged offences and a detailed description of the
alleged conduct. A failure to do so would, as supported by the
Divisional Court decision, be an error in law.
 
16. The second case was Beauge v. Metcap
Living Management Inc., 2012 ONSC 1160. In the Landlord’s view, hearing
submissions on the applications would render these proceedings procedurally unfair and prejudicial to the Landlord, particularly for the Board to hear the Tenant’s applications, and draw
conclusions from the submissions, as adequate notice had not been provided to
the Landlord to respond to.
 
17.
Finally, counsel
also directed the Board to the case of
Aghazarian v. Cena 2017 ONSC 3990, indicating that it
would be an error in law to
make an award of damages that was higher than that which
was pled.
 
18. It was the Landlord’s view that
the Tenant’s applications do not contain sufficient pleadings and as a result the Board does not have jurisdiction
to consider the application.
 
19. I find that the T2 and T6 applications contain
detailed information allowing the Landlord to understand the allegations being made,
including the specific dates and times of events, and details of the events
themselves.
 
20. For instance, the Tenant’s T2 application included
a series of tables that outlined the
Tenant’s
alleged exposure to chemicals, solvents, drugs, and marijuana on a day-to-day
basis, and in some cases
with minute-by-minute detail.
As a second example, the Tenant’s




 
financial remedies
captured in both the T2 and T6 applications revealed
the mathematical calculations
used to arrive at the remedies claimed, often down to the specific penny.
 
21. Given all of the above, I am satisfied that
the Tenant’s applications contain sufficient information, and were provided to
the Landlord with sufficient notice such that they had enough information to compose a meaningful response.
Therefore, the request
to dismiss the applications
under section 197(1) of the Act is denied.
 
THE T6 APPLICATION
 
Evidence
 
22. The T6 application is about alleged
deficiencies in the mechanical systems that control airflow through
the Tenant’s unit.
Specifically, these mechanical systems were alleged
to
be underpowered as per current
standards, resulting in his exposure to odours and vapors
from illicit use of “hard drugs”, odours of burnt rubber, marijuana, solvents,
burnt plastic, and smoke emanating from the neighbouring unit.
 
23. The Tenant asserted
that these deficiencies persisted from July 21, 2018 until he moved out of the unit in February 2019.
The Tenant made multiple complaints to the Landlord about his exposure to
odours and vapors and loud noises.
 
24. The Tenant did not lead evidence to support
these allegations, such as reports from qualified experts or notices
issued by municipal officials identifying
breaches of health, safety, housing or maintenance standards
 
25. The Tenant called the Landlord’s
superintendent as his first witness who testified that he was not aware of any mechanical deficiencies in the building’s systems that control
airflow into the Tenant’s unit. He was aware that significant
investigation was conducted by the Landlord in response to the Tenant’s
complaints which included an investigation by the Fire Department. The Enbridge
Gas company also attended the rental unit in response to a call made by the
Tenant.
 
26. The superintendent also testified that he
lived on the same floor as the Tenant and his neighbouring unit 109, and at no
time did he ever witness vapors, fumes, odours of solvents emanating from unit 109 when the Tenant resided there. The superintendent also had never witnessed the neighbour in unit 109 using
illicit drugs. However, he did witness smoke in the Tenant’s unit during an
inspection, and the smell of marijuana outside of his unit on one occasion.
He was aware that the Tenant and the neighbour
occupying unit 109 were not
on friendly terms.
 
27. The Landlord’s first witness was the
neighbouring occupant of unit 109, Mr. T. Mr. T’s testified that he continues
to reside in unit 109 and denies consuming illicit drugs, marijuana, or
engaging in activities that would create smoke, vapors, nor odours from burnt
rubber or plastic, or solvents during the period the Tenant was his neighbour.
He smokes cigarettes which
he consumes outside of his unit. Mr. T also testified that he did not
partake in repeated wall-knocking noises as the Tenant alleged in his T2




 
application (discussed in further detail
below) but did overhear regular
screaming emanating from the Tenant’s unit.
 
28. Mr. T’s confirmed
that property management conducted significant investigation in his unit in
response to the Tenant’s complaints without identifying any issues. These
efforts included visits from Enbridge Gas, the operations manager and her
superior, all three superintendents that worked at the building during the
course of the Tenant’s tenancy, Certified Clean Air Service contractors who
conducted air quality tests, and a Fire Inspector named CB.
 
29. He also testified that when the Tenant
resided in unit 108, the Tenant would regularly smoke cigarettes and marijuana
in his unit with the smoke often emanating into the hallways, but not into his unit. He also testified that,
as far as he understands, the venting systems from his unit do not enter into unit 108
but travel in a different direction.
 
30. The Landlord’s last witness was the Property
Manager, MM. She testified that she was not directly involved with
the investigations undertaken by the Landlord pertaining to unit 108 and 109
but witnessed all of the step’s management had taken to address the Tenant’s
complaints.
 
31. She testified that several contractors
visited to inspect the ventilation riser, and the Landlord changed a “motor” in
the system despite the fact that there were no identifiable issues found with
the system. Installing a new motor was aimed at improving the ventilation system.
The Landlord also retained the services of a company
called CCAS  who proceeded to clean all of the vents, and also performed
an inspection using camera technology. New “dampers” were also installed on the
vent line for the purpose of balancing airflow through the unit, all of which
was aimed at trying to improve the air flow in response to the Tenant’s
complaints, despite not identifying any mechanical issues.
 
32. She also confirmed that Enbridge Gas conducted an inspection in response to the
Tenant’s complaints without identifying any errors, problems
or violations, and there were no City Orders in relation to the
mechanical and ventilation issues the Tenant had complained about. A new tenant
had moved into the unit on February 15, 2019, and the new resident had not
raised any of the concerns raised by the Tenant.
 
33. The property manager indicated that their
files contain two complaint letters against the Tenant pertaining to marijuana
use emanating from his unit, which property
management responded to by sending the Tenant warning letters.
 
Analysis
 
34. The issue before the Board is whether
the Landlord has breached their obligation under the Act to address any disrepair in
a timely and effective manner.
 
35. Pursuant
to subsection 20(1) of the Act, a landlord is responsible for:




 
providing and maintaining a residential complex,
including the rental
units in it, in
a good state of repair and fit for
habitation and for complying with health, safety, housing and maintenance
standards.
 
36. In the case Onyskiw v. CJM Property
Management, 2016 ONCA 477 (“Onyskiw”) (CanLII), the Court of Appeal for Ontario determined that a
contextual approach should be adopted when considering a landlord’s potential
breach of subsection 20(1) of the Act and a breach will not be found if the landlord’s
response to a maintenance issue was reasonable in the circumstances.
 
37. Furthermore, and in accordance with
Onyskiw, a contextual approach must be taken to determine a potential breach
of the Landlord’s obligation pursuant
to subsection 20(1)
of the Act.
 
38. Based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, the Tenant had not established that during his tenancy there was
a maintenance issue related to the mechanical systems
that control the airflow through his unit. Moreover, the evidence
establishes that the Landlord responded to the Tenant’s complaints in a timely,
effective, and reasonable manner by directing their superintendents to
investigate the Tenants complaints, and, retaining the services of a contractor
to investigate the ventilation system and replace mechanical components. No deficiencies or items of disrepair were identified during the investigation. Given all of
the above, I find that the Tenant has not established that the Landlord
breached its obligation to maintain and repair under section 20(1) of the Act.
 
THE T2 APPLICATION
 
Evidence
 
39. The T2 application alleges that the Tenant
was exposed to odours and vapors from the alleged use of illicit
drugs, marijuana, smoke, and odours of burnt rubber, burnt plastic, and solvents allegedly emanating from unit 109 and its occupant,
Mr. T’s. In addition, the Tenant also alleged that Mr. T’s would repeatedly
knock on his wall at 3:00 a.m. –
4:00 a.m., on a nightly basis while engaged in illicit drug use.
 
40. The Tenant provided oral evidence and referred to a set of charts he created
and attached to the T2 application. These charts
summarize the symptoms he, and his dog, experienced
beginning on July 21, 2018 and continuing during the months of September 2018, October
2018, and November 2018, from exposure to the odours and vapor that were
alleged to have come from the occupant in the neighbouring unit 109. The
frequency and duration of each event was logged in extraordinary detail.
 
41. The Landlord’s evidence was presented
through Mr. T’s, and Ms. M. . Mr. T’s confirmed that, in response
to the Tenant’s complaints, significant investigation was
conducted by management which included inquiries and inspections of his unit by
the three superintendents who worked
at the building during the period of the Tenant’s tenancy, inspections
conducted by the operations manager and her superior, outside contractors
visited his unit as did Enbridge Gas, ventilation contractors and the Fire




 
Department. Mr.
T’s also testified that he does not engage in the conduct alleged by the Tenant and that he does not create
noise, particularly during
the early morning
hours as alleged. He further testified that he would hear noise coming
from the Tenant’s unit
 
42. Ms. M’s testimony was consistent with that
of Mr. T’s. She testified that the Landlord had directed the superintendent to
attend to Mr. T.s’ unit to investigate the complaint, and devoted significant resources to contractors to tested and conducted work to improve the ventilation systems.
 
43. The Landlord submitted as documentary
evidence invoices from a contractor named CCAS dated February 11, 2019 and
March 1, 2019. The invoiced services included cleaning and disinfecting
bathroom and kitchen vents and associated grilles, taking photos and MUA
Readings, inspecting the weather stripping on doors, checking roof top
motors/filters, and using a camera scope in the bathroom and kitchen riser. A report entitled “Ventilation
Rehabilitation Summary Report – (Riser 08 & 09)” dated March
7, 2019 was also submitted
as evidence. This report summarized the scope of the work
performed by CCAS.
 
Analysis
 
44. Section 22 of the RTA provides that a landlord
shall not substantially interfere with a tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of their
rental unit.
 
45. In this case the alleged disturbing conduct
was caused by another tenant in the residential complex, not the Landlord. The
Courts have determined however that
it is not sufficient for a landlord to merely refrain
from conduct that substantially interferes; landlords also have a positive obligation to take reasonable
steps to provide tenants with reasonable enjoyment where it is another tenant
who is the direct cause of the problem.
 
46. The leading case on the issue is Hassan
v. Niagara Housing Authority, [2000] O.J. No. 5650 (Ont. Div. Crt.)
(“Hassan”). In Hassan, the applicant tenant was being seriously harassed
by another tenant. The landlord
argued that it was not responsible for the harasser’s behaviour. The Court held that “it is not that the
other tenant’s actions are imputed to the landlord, but rather, the landlord’s legal responsibility to provide the tenant
with quiet enjoyment that gives rise to the responsibility on the landlord to
take reasonable steps to correct
the intrusion of the neighbouring tenant on the tenant’s
right to quiet enjoyment.”
 
47. However, before the Board considers whether
a landlord took reasonable steps to correct the intrusion of the neighbouring tenant on the tenant’s right to quiet enjoyment, the tenant must first
establish that they were in fact subject to conduct by another tenant that
substantially interfered with their reasonable enjoyment. In Hassan,
such conduct was proven. At paragraph 2 of that decision, the Court stated
that:
 
“The landlord does not dispute
that the tenant
suffered harassment by the children of a neighbouring tenant from the
time he moved into the premises in August of 1996 until the hearing before the
Ontario Rental Housing Tribunal on September 1, 1999.”




 
 
 
48. The present case is different, as the
Tenant has not established on the balance of probabilities that the neighbouring tenant in unit 109, Mr. T’s, engaged in any improper conduct. The Tenant’s evidence is that he experienced, over a period
of three plus month, negative symptoms
which he attributes to come from exposure to vapors and odours while he resided in his unit. However,
the evidence led does not establish that either the Landlord or the
neighbouring tenant were responsible for the issues experienced by the Tenant.
 
49. As the Tenant has not established that Mr. T’s engaged in any improper
conduct, the Landlord
therefore does not have an obligation to address Mr. T’s conduct.
 
50. I also find that the Landlord expended
considerable effort, expense, and resources to investigate the Tenant’s complaints respecting Mr. T’ to determine
whether they were valid (and would require a response
by the Landlord) by directing their superintendents to investigate the neighbouring unit and the conduct of Mr. T’s. No
issues were identified.
 
51. Given all of the above, I
find that the Tenant has not established that Landlord breached
its obligation under section 22 of the Act.
 
It is order that:
 
 
1. The Tenant’s
T2 and T6 applications are dismissed.
 
 
January 5, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Emile Ramlochan
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite
700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

