Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-17
File number:	
TNT-26932-20

Citation:	Salad v Oaks, 2022 CanLII 63745 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jqprg>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 30
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-26932-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


1621, 160
CHALKFARM DR DRIVE
N NORTH YORK ON M3L2J1


 




Between:


Huda Salad and Assad Jama


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Greenin
Oaks


Landlord



 
 
Huda Salad
and Assad Jama (the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that Greenwin Oaks (the 'Landlord') failed to meet the
Landlord’s maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the 'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety, housing or maintenance
standards.
 
This application was heard
by video conference on November 12, 2021. The Tenants and the
Landlord attended the hearing. The Landlord was represented by Geoff Paine.
 
Assad Jama provided evidence
for the Tenants. Mariela Tamayo
provided evidence for the
Landlord.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
This is a
T6 application that was filed on June 25, 2020. It is based on allegations that the Landlord failed to adequately
address a bedbug infestation in the rental unit.
 
2.    
The Tenants
are seeking a rent abatement of $5,608.00. The monthly rent is $1,402.00 and the rent abatement requested
by the Tenants represents a 100% abatement for the period February to June of 2020.
 
3.    
The Tenants
also requested an order requiring that the Landlord
‘heat treat’ the rental
unit and compensate them for the time spent in dealing with the issue.
 
4.     The applicable provisions of the Act provide:
 
16 When a landlord
or a tenant becomes liable to pay any amount as a result of a breach of a tenancy agreement, the person
entitled to claim the amount has a duty to take reasonable steps to minimize
the persons' losses.
…




 
 
 
20 (1) A landlord
is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in it,
in a good state of repair and fit
for habitation and for complying with health, safety, housing and maintenance
standards.
…
 
29   (1) A tenant or former tenant
of a rental unit may apply to the Board for any of the following orders:
…
 
3. An order determining that the landlord, superintendent or agent of the landlord has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of
the rental unit or residential complex for all usual purposes by the tenant or
a member of his or her household.
…
 
(2) No application may be made under subsection (1) more than one year after the day the alleged
conduct giving rise to the application occurred.
 
30  
(1) If the Board determines in an application under paragraph 1 of subsection
29
(1)
that a landlord has breached
an obligation under subsection 20 (1) or section
161, the Board may do one or
more of the following:
…
 
2. Order an abatement of rent.
 
5.    
There is no dispute
that there was a bedbug infestation in the rental
unit. The issues on this application boil down to: (a)
whether in addressing the bedbug infestation the Landlord complied with its
obligations under subsection 20(1) of the Act; and, if not (b) the extent of
the rent abatement to which the Tenants are entitled based on the Landlord’s
breach.
 
Evidence
 
6.     The Tenants advised
the Landlord of the bedbug
infestation in March of 2020.
 
7.    
Mr. Jama provided video
and photographic evidence of the presence of bedbugs in the rental unit and
testified with respect to the impact the bedbug infestation had on his family. Mr. Jama asserted that his wife is
allergic to bedbugs, although there was no medical evidence and she did not
testify. The primary impact of the
infestation appears, however, to have been the inability of the Tenants’ infant
to sleep as a result of the bedbugs. The Landlord
did not challenge Mr. Jama’s evidence with respect to the impact of the infestation.
 
8.    
The Landlord responded
to the bedbug infestation by arranging for the rental unit to be treated by two pest control companies on multiple
occasions. There was no dispute
that the Landlord’s efforts
to address the infestation were not effective until a “heat treatment”
was applied in July of 2020. There was evidence that the Tenants advised the
Landlord




 
that the bedbugs
continued to be an issue
and repeatedly requested
that the Landlord employ ‘heat treatment’ to
address the bedbugs.
 
9.    
Ms Tamayo’s
evidence was that the Landlord
arranged to have the rental
unit treated for bedbugs each time the Tenants
complained. There was no evidence of
any proactive steps having been taken to address the issue such as, for example, determining why the spray
treatments were not effective.
 
10.  The Landlord produced reports from 1613932
Ontario Ltd o/a pestcontrol+
(‘pestcontol+’) that indicated an on-going problem
with bedbugs in the rental
unit as recently
as June 22, 2020.
The Landlord produced a report from a company named ThermaGone that
indicates that the rental unit was ‘heat treated’ on July 7, 2020.
 
11.  The Landlord produced e-mail correspondence
from the Tenants in August of 2020 that suggests that bedbugs may have continued to be an issue notwithstanding the Landlord’s
efforts. Mr. Jama’s evidence was, however, that the issue was resolved in July
of 2022 and the Tenants appear based on the Landlord’s evidence to have refused
further treatment of the rental unit after July of 2020.
 
12.  I did not find Ms Tamayo’s evidence
particularly helpful. She appeared to
be simply reading from the written reports filed by the Landlord. At one point during his direct
examination, Mr. Paine was required
to direct her to the place in the
written report from pestcontrol+
from where he wished her to read in order to answer his question. On another occasion, Mr. Paine purported to correct the evidence provided
by Ms Tamayo.
 
13.  When I inquired as to her personal
knowledge, Ms Tamayo testified that when pest control treatments are completed,
she receives an e-mail from the pest
control company. No such e-mails relating to the rental unit were not, however,
produced by the Landlord and the Landlord
did not call the pest control technicians as witnesses. She later testified that the pest control technician ‘usually’ comes to the office after
treating a unit to provide a report and then that the
technician ‘always’ comes to the office to provide a report.
 
14.  Ms Tamayo testified under direct
examination that she personally did not observe bedbugs in the rental
unit. However, under cross-examination, she admitted that she
attended at the unit only once during
the relevant period and did not look for
bedbugs when she was in the unit.
 
15.  I found Mr. Jama’s evidence to be confusing
at times, but I attribute that to the fact that he was a self-represented
litigant and likely has little
experience providing evidence. Mr.
Jama’s evidence was clear in terms of: (a) the date bedbug infestation was
first raised with the Landlord
and the Tenants;
efforts to have the Landlord
address the issue;
(b) the date the issue was
resolved; and (c) the fact that the
Landlord’s efforts to resolve the issue were not effective and the bedbug
infestation continued until at least July of 2020 notwithstanding the
treatments undertaken by the Landlord.




 
Breach of Subsection 20(1)
 
16.  There is no dispute that there was a bedbug
infestation in the rental unit. I find that a rental unit with
bedbugs is not in a good state of repair or fit for habitation. [See, for example, TNT-62498-14 (Re),
2015 CanLII 56719 (ON LTB)]
 
17.  Subsection 20(1) does not contain an
element of fault, such that the reasons that a landlord is unable, or has
failed, to maintain a rental unit in a good state of repair and fit for
habitation is not particularly relevant. [See
Offredi v. 751768 Ontario Ltd, 1994 CanLII 11006 (ON SCDC)] However,
in Onyskiw v. CJM Property Management Ltd. [2016 ONCA 477
(CanLII)], the Court of Appeal found that a landlord is not automatically in breach of its
maintenance obligations under subsection 20(1)
simply because there are maintenance issues with the rental unit.
Rather, the landlord’s response to the maintenance issues, once put on notice,
should be considered when determining whether the Landlord is in breach of its
maintenance obligations.
 
18.  The issue before me is whether, in addressing the bedbug infestation in the rental
unit, the Landlord’s remedial actions were responsive, timely and
reasonable. [See, for example, TNT-62498-14
(Re), 2015 CanLII 56719 (ON LTB)]
 
19.  Considering the evidence that was before
me, I am satisfied that the Tenants have established that while the Landlord’s remedial
actions may have been timely,
they were not responsive or
reasonable in the sense that they were not effective.
 
20.  While not binding on me, Board’s
Interpretation Guideline #5–Breach of Maintenance Obligations indicates
that no abatement should be provided where a landlord responds within a
reasonable time, and the response was appropriate to effect the repair,
no remedy should be granted and suggests that a remedy will be available where
attempts by a landlord to rectify an issue are ineffective.       In my view, to comply with its obligations under subsection 20(1), a
landlord must respond in a manner that is effective and that addresses the
issues. In this case, the Landlord did not. The
evidence was clear that it was not until the Landlord ultimately employed a
‘heat treatment’ in July of 2020—a treatment the Tenants had repeatedly
requested—that the bedbug infestation was resolved. Ms Tamayo testified that the Landlord was aware that ‘heat
treatment” was necessary to deal with a
persistent bedbug infestation, but provided no
explanation as to why it took so long for the Landlord to employ that
treatment in the rental unit.
 
21.  While there were some suggestion in the
evidence that the Tenants did not
properly prepared the unit for the
treatments, I am not satisfied that these presented a material
impediment to the Landlord taking appropriate steps
to address the bedbug infestation and the matter was not raised
by Ms Tamayo as being an issue.
 
22.  Having found that the Landlord breached its
obligation under subsection 20(1), I must consider the appropriate remedy. The impact of the failure of the Landlord to
effectively address the bedbug infestation was to deprive
the Tenants of the full use and enjoyment
of the rental unit. In those
circumstances, the appropriate remedy is a rent abatement, which is what the
Tenants have requested and what I am prepared to grant.




 
23.  I must now determine
the appropriate amount
of that rent abatement.
 
Appropriate Rent Abatement
 
24.  As noted by Vice Chair Savoie in TST-56138-14
(Re) [2015 CanLII 3162 (ON LTB)], ‘[a]batement of rent is
a contractual remedy based on
the principle that if you are paying
100% of the rent then you should be getting 100% of what you are paying for and
if you are not getting
that, then a tenant should
be entitled to abatement equal to
the difference in value.’
 
25.  I am not prepared to order a 100% rent abatement
as requested by the Tenants.
While I find that the bedbug
infestation had an impact on the Tenants’ use and enjoyment of the rental unit,
in my view, the infestation did not
deprive the Tenants of 100% of
the value of the rental unit.
 
26.  So what then is the appropriate
abatement?
 
27. 
In Biltmore Terrace Apartments v. Nazareth
[[1997] O.J. No 1881 (Gen Div)], a decision
rendered under the Landlord and Tenant Act, the Court remarked:
 
It is always
difficult to arrive at a proper amount
or percentage by way of
abatement. There is no magic formula. What is appropriate in each case will depend
on the circumstances, including the amount of rent, the age and general
condition of the premises, the nature and degree of the non repair, and its
duration, the efforts of the Landlord to inspect, the co-operation or otherwise
of the Tenant in that regard, and the efforts made by the Landlord to rectify
the defect.
 
28.  Similarly, in Offredi v. 751768 Ontario
Ltd. [1994 CanLII 11006 (ON SCDC), 116 DLR (4th) 757 (Gen Div)], the Court considered complaints made by a group of tenants concerning a lengthy power outage,
lack of parking due to garage repairs,
poor maintenance of common arrears
and lack of adequate security, which extended over
a two-year period. The Court found:
 
It is well recognized in the authorities that there is no neat formula
for determining an appropriate amount by way of abatement. In other words slide rule precision is not
possible. …The ultimate
objective is to set an amount that is fair in all the circumstances.
 
29. 
The decision
in Offredi was appealed and the Divisional Court upheld the trial judge and found:
 
As to the amount of the reduction, the learned judge
recognized that there was no mathematical way in which an appropriate amount
could be determined. He obviously wrestled with the problem and arrived at the conclusion that 20% was a fair figure in this
case to compensate the tenants for the deplorable conditions to which they have
been subjected. We can see no justification for our changing
that decision, made by the judge who heard the evidence as to those
conditions. [1994
CanLII 11006 (ON SCDC)]
 
30. 
Considering
the evidence as to the impact that the bedbug infestation had on the Tenants’ use and enjoyment
of the rental unit, I find that there was some disruption to




 
the Tenants’
ability to normally
reside in the rental unit that partially impinged on the Tenants’ use and enjoyment of the
rental unit. On that basis, I find
that a 10% rent abatement is appropriate.
 
31.  There was evidence
that, on one occasion, the Tenants refused
to permit a pest control technician access to the rental
unit on one occasion. There is no
dispute that this occurred because
the Tenants’ infant child was ill. While section 16 of
the Act requires that a tenant
mitigate its damages and that requires that a tenant co-operate with a landlord
attempting to address a maintenance issue, in this case, the Tenants were
acting reasonably in refusing entry to the unit due to the illness of their
child.
 
32.  In this case, the period for which the Tenants
are entitled to a rent rebate
is also an issue.
 
33.  The Tenants claimed abatement beginning in
February of 2020. The evidence was,
however, that the Tenants first raised the bedbug infestation with the Landlord
in March of 2020 and that is
the month that the abatement should begin.
 
34.  While there was some evidence
before me that the bedbug infestation continued
into August of 2020, Mr. Jama testified that the bedbug infestation
continued until July of 2020. That is the month the abatement should
end.
 
35. 
In summary,
I find that the Tenants
are entitled to a rent abatement of 10% for five months or $701.00 (5X$140.20).
 
36.  It was the Landlord’s position that I
should not consider the particular (subjective) impact the bedbug infestation
might have had on the Tenants. Aside,
however, from a rather vague reference to an unnamed
Divisional Court authority, Mr. Paine provided
me with no statutory or other legal authority for this proposition and I
do not believe that the broad assertion that on a T6 application the Board may
not consider the specific impact on the tenant of the failure of a landlord to
comply with its obligations under subsection 20(1) is correct. [See TET-62956-15
(Re), 2016 CanLII 38292 (ON LTB)] That being said, there was, as noted
above, no evidence with respect to the particular impact, if any, of the bedbug
infestation on Mr. Jama’s wife and I have made my decision based only on the
evidence as presented.
 
Other Remedies
 
37.  I am denying the Tenants’ request
for relief in addition
to a rent abatement.
 
38. 
There was no evidence
from the Tenants to substantiate any lost hours of work for
which the Landlords should be responsible.
 
39.  There is also no
basis for me to order that the Landlord
‘heat treat’ the rental unit. The
evidence is that the Landlords did ‘heat treat’ the rental unit in July of 2020
and the Tenant’s evidence was that the infestation was addressed in July of
2020.




 
 
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlords shall pay to the Tenants
$746.00 representing: (a) a rent abatement of
$701.00; and (b) $45.00
for the costs of filing the application.
 
2.    
The Tenants
are authorized to recover the $746.00 from the rent for the month of
February of 2022.
 
3.    
If the Tenants do not deduct the full
amount owing from the rent payable for the month of February of 2022, the
Landlord shall pay to the tenants the full amount
owing by February 28, 2022. If the full amount is not paid by February 28, 2022, then simple
interest will begin to accrue on any outstanding balance beginning on March 1,
2022 at 2.00% per annum.
 
 
January 17, 2022 Date Issued
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite
700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

