Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-07
File number:	
TNT-27289-20; 
 TNT-27305-20

Citation:	Kusema v Hadipour, 2022 CanLII 122639 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp4r>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-27289-20
File Number: TNT-27305-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


MAIN FLOOR,
326 QUEEN STREET NEWMARKET ON L3Y2G6


 




Between:


T. Francis Kusema Barbara Mangwende


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Hassan Hadipour
  Mitra Tavasoli


Landlords



 
 
 
T. Francis
Kusema and Barbara Mangwende (the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining
that Hassan Hadipour and Mitra Tavasoli (the 'Landlords') or the Landlords'
superintendent/agent substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of
the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their
household; and for an order that the Landlords reduced or discontinued a service
or facility in the last 12 months.
 
This application was heard by
videoconference on November 12, 2021.
 
The Tenants, the Tenants’
Representative S. Brown,
the Landlords and the Landlords Representative S. Sennik
attended the hearing.
 
Matters # TNT-27289-20 and #
TNT-27305-20 relate to the same property and parties and on
consent they were heard together.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Tenants brought a T3 Application, which alleges the Landlords reduced
or discontinued a service or facility in the last 12 months
 
2.     In addition to the T3 Application, the Tenants brought
a T2 Application pursuant to s.29(1) of the Act, which alleges the
Landlords substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or residential complex
by the Tenants or by
a member of their household.
 
3.     The Tenants seek a rent abatement of $7,875.00, that
the Landlords pay a fine to the Board, that the Landlords pay the Tenants
$7,200.00 being the difference in rent; that the Landlords pay the Tenants
$241.47 for moving and storage
expenses; and, that the




 
Landlords pay the Tenants
$35,000.00 in general damages for mental upset,
distress and humiliation.
 
4.    
The tenancy began March 1, 2018 and ended on May 31, 2020.
 
5.    
The monthly rent was $1,750.00 at the time of termination of the tenancy.
 
6.    
The Tenants occupied the main floor unit, while
other tenants (the “Neighbouring
Tenants”) occupied the basement unit.
 
 
T3 Application
 
7.    
For the reasons that follow, I do not find on a balance
of probabilities that the
Landlords reduced or discontinued a service or facility in the last 12 months.
 
8.     While the Tenants’ T3 application fails to describe
the service or facility that was discontinued, the Tenants relied upon the
particulars noted in their T2 application which allege the Tenants were
deprived of the use of the common area laundry room due to its lack of
cleanliness. The Tenants state as a result, they were forced to use the
services of a local laundromat to wash their clothing, at an added cost.
 
9.     The pictures produced
by the Tenants in support
of their allegations show as follows:
very minor dust/dirt markings, a leaf on the laundry room floor, and one
used hand towel on the countertop.
 
10.  I do not find that the Tenants were deprived of the
use of the laundry room based upon the evidence before me. The washer/dryer were functional, and the
markings were very faint, to the point of not being noticeable. I find the condition the laundry room
could not reasonably be described as
deterring the use of its facilities. The
Tenant’s T3 application is denied.
 
L2 Application Laundry Room
11. 
I do not find on
a balance of probabilities that the condition of the laundry room substantially
interfered with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. While I accept the Tenants evidence that
they used the local laundromat and incurred a cost in doing so, I find any
alleged lack of cleanliness of the laundry room to be very minimal in nature
and could not reasonably interfere with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of
its facilities. This portion of the
Tenants’ claim is denied.
Power / Hot water shut off
 
12. 
I also do not
find on a balance of probabilities that the Landlord interference with the
Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit as a result of (i)
the temporary disruption




 
of hot water whereby
it was reduced to a trickle on April 3, 2020; as well as, (ii) the temporary disruption of power in the
kitchen area portion of the rental unit on April 2.
 
13.  In both cases, the Tenants alleged
that the power and hot water was restored within hours, no later than the
following morning. The Landlord testified he immediately took action upon
becoming aware of this issue and began making inquiries with the Neighbouring
Tenants to determine the cause. I find the Landlord acted reasonably in the circumstances.
 
14. 
While the Tenants
allege the electrical panel and hot water heater and valve were accessible to
the Neighbouring Tenants, I am not satisfied on a balance of probabilities that
the omissions or actions of either the Neighbour Tenants or the Landlords contributed to this interruption.
Smoke
 
15.  The Tenants alleged the downstairs Tenants have
continually smoked and the Landlords have refused or omitted to take the
appropriate steps to address their behaviour.
 
16.  While the Landlords have prohibited smoking at the
residential complex, the Tenants submit that they have detected smoking on
various dates between September 14, 2019 onwards, and that the smoke comes
through the vents and is “intense”.
 
17.  The Tenants tendered
into evidence email correspondence with the Landlords advising of the smoke
issue, as well as pictures showing their vents taped/sealed so as to mitigate
the alleged effects.
 
18.  The Landlord acknowledges the Tenants’ email
correspondence, and states he took reasonable steps in the circumstances, as
follows:
(i)                
he attended at the property
several times at the times requested by the Tenants and did not smell anything;
(ii)               
he attended at the residential complex
unannounced and did not smell
anything;
(iii)             
he made numerous inquiries with
the Neighbouring Tenants and produced email correspondence with the
Neighbouring Tenants whereby the smoking concerns were both raised, and
ultimately, denied by the Neighbouring Tenants.
 
19.  The Landlord submits he was responsive and sympathetic
to the Tenants’ concerns but ultimately could not proceed further as the
Tenants’ concerns were not substantiated. The
Landlord further added the Tenants did not produce any picture evidence of the
Neighbouring Tenants smoking or discarded cigarette packages or other indicia
that smoking was indeed occurred in the basement unit.
 
20.  I find the Landlord’s inquiries and investigation of
the smoking allegations to be genuine. The onus is this case rests upon the
Tenants to show that the Landlords’ actions or omissions, on a balance of
probabilities, interfered with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit.  Based upon the evidence before me, I find there was




 
insufficient evidence
for the Landlords to determine
the source, if any, of the alleged smoke. This portion of the Tenants’ claim is also denied.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.    
The Tenants’ applications are dismissed.
 
February 7, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Peter Nicholson
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East,
Suite 700, 7th Floor
Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

