Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-14
File number:	
TNT-32026-21

Citation:	Subat v Waldman, 2022 CanLII 122600 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp58>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 30 and 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-32026-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


BASEMENT, 69 COLLINSON BLVD TORONTO ON M3H3C2


 




Between:


Alexander Subat


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Rosanne Waldman


Landlord



 
 
T6 Application
 
Alexander Subat (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Rosanne Waldman (the 'Landlord') failed
to meet the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') or failed to comply with
health, safety, housing or maintenance standards.
 
T2 Application
 
The Tenant also applied
for an order determining that the Landlord:
 
a)      
entered the rental unit illegally;
b)      
withheld or deliberately interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital service;
c)       
substantially interfered with the Tenant’s
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit; and
d)      
harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the Tenant.
 
The hearing for these
two applications was held by videoconference on January 27, 2022. The Tenant and the Landlord both attended
the hearing.
 
Determinations
– T6 Application:
 
1.     On March 9, 2021 the Tenant filed a T6 Application
(T6) seeking compensation for repairs as a result of the Landlord failing to
meet a maintenance and safety obligation under
the Act. I am satisfied that this allegation can be considered pursuant
to s. 29(2) of the Act, as
it occurred on March 18, 2020, less than one year before the application was filed.
 
2.     Section 20 of the Act holds the landlord responsible
for providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units
in it, in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying
with health, safety,
housing and maintenance standards.




 
3.    
In Onyskiw v. CJM Property Management, 2016 ONCA 477 (CanLII),
the Court of Appeal
determined that a contextual approach should be adopted when considering a
landlord’s potential breach of subsection 20(1) of the Act and a breach will
not be found if the landlord’s response to a maintenance issue was reasonable
in the circumstances.
 
Background
 
4.    
The Tenant moved into the basement
rental unit at 69 Collinson Boulevard
in Toronto on January 4, 2020. The Landlord
resided on the main floor of the single detached
house at 69 Collinson
Boulevard. The Tenant signed a monthly
tenancy agreement on January 4, 2020 agreeing to pay the Landlord
$950.00 on the first of day of each month for rent.
 
5.    
The Tenant moved out of the rental unit on April 1, 2021 as a result of a strained
tenancy relationship with the Landlord.
 
6.    
The Tenant alleges that the
Landlord failed to maintain the
toilet in the unit in a good state of repair,
and as a result, he incurred maintenance expenses to repair
the toilet.
 
Toilet Water Flow Tenant’s Evidence
7.    
The Tenant testified that on March
18, 2020 he first noticed that water was flowing intermittently within
the unit’s toilet,
but that the toilet was not overflowing. He advised the
Landlord twice on March 18, 2020 regarding the running toilet water, first by
text message, and the second time by email. The
Tenant submitted copies of the text message and email exchange with the
Landlord.
 
8.     The Tenant testified further that on March 18, 2020
the Landlord provided suggestions to remedy
the water running
in the toilet, but these actions did not resolve
the issue, and the
intermittent toilet water flow continued until June 29, 2020, at which point
the toilet water was flowing constantly. The
Tenant acknowledged that the toilet flushed and operated, but it required
“fiddling” with each use, and he was concerned that it would eventually flood.
 
9.     The Tenant stated that after more than four months of
living with the irritation of hearing the toilet water flowing, and on-going conversations with the Landlord
regarding the toilet, he purchased a toilet part at Home
Depot for $10.51 and repaired the
toilet himself at the end of July
2020. The Tenant submitted a copy of
his bank statement with a $10.51 purchase from Home Depot on July 29, 2020.
 
Landlord’s Evidence
 
10.  The Landlord testified that the toilet in the rental
unit did run-on, but it did not leak externally, and therefore she did not consider it a significant issue to remedy.
She stated that she provided
the Tenant with possible remedies for the toilet water flow issue on March 18,
2020.




 
11.  The Landlord stated further that the Tenant never
asked her to fix the toilet and never mentioned the annoyance of the noise from the toilet as a result of its running water. The
Landlord noted that the Tenant never approached her to seek reimbursement for
his repair costs associated with the toilet.
 
Analysis
 
12.  On the basis of the evidence provided, I am satisfied
that the toilet in the rental unit functioned;
however, given its on-going water run-on issue, it did not operate
properly. I am also satisfied
that the Landlord was aware of this issue, and the Tenant’s on-going
displeasure with the toilet’s poor operation, but elected not to take
appropriate remedial action. I find
that it was unreasonable for the Landlord not to remedy the toilet’s faulty operation.
 
13.  I therefore find that the Landlord did not maintain
the toilet in the rental unit in a good state
of repair, and that the Landlord breached
her obligation under s. 20(1) of the Act.
 
Remedy
 
14.  The Tenant is seeking compensation from the Landlord
for the $10.51 he paid to purchase a toilet
part from Home Depot that allowed him to repair the unit’s
toilet.
 
15.  In determining the appropriate remedy, I must apply
subsection 30(2) of the Act and consider whether the Tenant
advised the Landlord of the alleged breach before applying to the Board. I
must also apply section 16 of the Act and consider the parties’ duty to
mitigate their losses.
 
16.  In this case the Tenant
advised the Landlord
of the alleged breach twice on March 18, 2020, well before applying to the
Board on March 9, 2021. I therefore
find that the Tenant complied with s. 30(2) of the Act.
 
17.  Although the Tenant did not advise the Landlord of his
intention to repair the toilet, and that he would seek compensation for its
repair, the cost associated with its repair – a small part and no labour
charges – mitigated the Landlord’s loss. The
repair by the Tenant fixed the water run-on
issue that was worsening with time. I therefore find that the Tenant complied with s. 16 of the Act.
 
18.  I find that the Tenant’s request to receive compensation
of $10.51 for the part he purchased to repair
the toilet is reasonable. I therefore award the Tenant $10.51 in compensation pursuant to s. 30(1)5i of
the Act.
 
Determinations
– T2 Application: Consideration of Tenant
Allegations
19.  On March 9, 2021 the Tenant filed a T2 application
(T2) pursuant to s. 29(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') seeking compensation for a rent difference
and internet charges, and a return of his rent deposit, as a result of the
Landlord’s alleged:




 
(a)    
entry into the rental unit on January 20, 2020;
 
(b)    
interference with the reasonable supply of heat to the rental unit throughout the duration of the tenancy from January
4, 2020 to April 1, 2021;
 
(c)    
interference of internet services
throughout the duration
of the tenancy from January
4, 2020 to April 1, 2021;
 
(d)    
substantial interference with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit as a result of cooking odours on
February 12 and 26, 2021; and
 
(e)    
harassment of the Tenant
by:
 
(i)      
failing to provide the Tenant with rent receipts
for the months
of February and March 2020;
(ii)     
creating unnecessary noise over the period
of February 27, 2021 to March 13, 2021; and
(iii)   
calling the police regarding
Tenant conduct on March 6, 2021.
 
20.  In the Tenant’s
T2 application the Tenant alleged
that the Landlord
interfered with the Tenant’s provision of internet service
pursuant to s. 29(1)2 of the Act.
 
21.  Section 29(1)2 of the Act
states:
 
(1) A tenant or former tenant of a rental unit may
apply to the Board for any of the
following orders:
 
2.    An
order determining that the landlord,
superintendent or agent of the landlord has withheld the reasonable supply of any vital
service, care service or food that it is
the landlord’s obligation to supply under the tenancy
agreement or deliberately interfered with the
reasonable supply of any vital service, care service or food.
 
22.  Section 2(1) states:
 
“vital service” means hot or cold water, fuel, electricity, gas or, during the part of
each year prescribed by the regulations, heat (“service essential”)
 
23.  Internet service is not a vital service
pursuant to s. 2(1) of the Act, and therefore the Tenant is unable to apply to the Board
for an order pursuant to s. 29(1)2
of the Act. For this reason,
the allegation in paragraph 19(c) above will not be considered.
 
24.  I am satisfied that the allegations in paragraph 19(d) and 19(e)(ii) and (iii) can be
considered as they occurred less than one year before the application was
filed.
 
25.  The allegation in paragraph 19(b) originally started
more than one year before the application was filed. However, on the basis of the on-going nature of the allegation
throughout the period of tenancy,
and during the one-year period before the application
was filed, I am satisfied that the allegation in paragraph 19(b) can be
considered.




 
26.  The alleged incidents in paragraph 19(a) and 19(i)
occurred more than one year before the Tenant filed this application. However, all limitation periods were
suspended in Ontario during the period March 16, 2020 to September 14, 2020
pursuant to an order under the Emergency Order Management and Civil Protection
Act. Therefore, once the period of suspension is accounted for, these allegations do fall within
one year of the date of the application and can therefore
be considered.
 
Illegal Entry
 
27.  The Tenant testified that on January 20, 2020 the
Landlord entered his rental unit while he was at work, without prior notice, to
provide the Tenant with a portable kitchen table. The Tenant noted that the Landlord
provided the table to replace
a built-in table that had been removed from the unit as a result
of its poor condition.
 
28.  The Landlord testified that the Tenant
requested a replacement table for the built-in table that was removed from the unit. The Landlord acknowledged that on January
20, 2020 she entered the rental unit without providing 24-hours notice to set
the portable table in the unit. She
noted that she was in the unit for approximately 30 seconds.
 
Analysis
 
29.  On the basis of the evidence provided,
I am satisfied that the Landlord entered
the rental unit on January 20,
2020 without prior notice to the Tenant. Section
26(1) of the Act states:
 
(1)  
A
landlord may enter a rental unit
at any time without written notice,
 
(a)  
in cases of emergency; or
 
(b)  
if the tenant consents
to the entry at the time of entry.
 
30.  On the basis of the evidence provided, I am satisfied
that on January 20, 2020 there was no emergency in the rental unit that
prompted the Landlord’s entry, nor did the Landlord obtain the consent of the
Tenant to enter the unit at the time of her entry. Therefore, I find that the Landlord’s January
20, 2020 entry into the unit was not permitted
pursuant to
s. 26(1) of the Act, and thus, this entry was illegal.
 
Withholding Heat
 
31.  The Tenant testified that throughout the winter months
of his tenancy the temperature in the kitchen of his unit was 21 degrees Celsius,
sometimes less, while
his living room and
bedroom were normally 19 degrees Celsius. The
Tenant remarked that he kept thermometers in each room of his unit to observe
temperatures on a daily basis; however, he did not record or submit any
temperature readings over an
extended period of time as evidence.
 
32.  The Tenant testified further that when he requested an
increase in heat from the Landlord, the amount of heat in the unit would
increase temporarily, but then it would return
to its original levels. He noted that at the end of January 2020 he used a space




 
heater as a supplemental heat source, and agreed to pay the Landlord an additional
$20.00 in rent per month for the hydro costs of the heater.
 
33.  The Landlord testified that the thermostat in her
residence, directly above the Tenant’s unit,
was set at 22.2 degrees Celsius.
She acknowledged that it may have been cooler in the
basement of the residential complex,
and therefore, she did not
object to the Tenant’s use of
a space heater. The Landlord stated
that the Tenant offered her extra money each month for increased utility costs,
which she accepted; however, she never asked
the Tenant for a supplement to
the rent as a result of increased
space heater utility costs.
 
34.  The Landlord acknowledged that it was her responsibility to provide heat, hydro and water to the Tenant - as per her
January 4, 2020 rental agreement with
the Tenant.
 
Analysis
 
35.  The provision of heat is a vital
service pursuant to s. 2(1) of the
Act.
 
36.  Section 21(1) of the Act
states:
 
A landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s
occupancy of a rental unit and before the day on which an order evicting
the tenant is executed, withhold the reasonable supply of any vital service,
care service or food that it is the landlord’s obligation to supply under the
tenancy agreement or deliberately interfere with the reasonable supply of any
vital service, care service or food.
 
37.  On the basis of the evidence provided, I am satisfied
that the temperature in the basement rental unit during the winter months was
not satisfactory for the Tenant. However, without evidence of the actual
recorded temperatures in various areas of the basement unit during the winter
season, I am unable to determine if the temperature in the unit was at 21 degrees
Celsius, the municipal standard for the City of Toronto, or less
than 21 degrees Celsius.
 
38.  The Tenant has not established that his unit was less
than 21 degrees Celsius over the period of September
1 to June 15 during which heat is considered a vital service
pursuant to Ontario Regulation 516/06 s. 4.(1).
I therefore find that the Landlord did not breach her obligation under s. 20(1) of
the Act.
 
Substantial Interference – Cooking Odours
 
39.  The Tenant testified
that on February 12, 2021 he awoke in the middle of the night as a result
of a strong cooking smell coming from the Landlord’s kitchen. The Tenant stated
that he texted the Landlord the next
day about the smell, and she advised him that she had used a
slow cooker overnight.
 
40.  The Tenant testified further that on February 26, 2021
he again woke up in the middle of the night as a result of cooking odours
coming from the Landlord’s kitchen. The
Tenant stated that he emailed the Landlord the next morning about the cooking
odour and its disruption to his sleep. He noted that he offered
the Landlord suggestions to mitigate the issue to include relocating the slow
cooker to another area of her house, turning off the




 
ventilation in the residential complex, and cooking
during the day. The Tenant
added that the Landlord did
not respond to his suggestions.
 
41.  The Tenant stated that the cooking odour was evident
on another one or two occasions;
however, he did not provide specific dates of these occurrences.
 
42.  The Landlord testified
that as a result of the Tenant’s
complaint on February
26, 2021 she reduced her use of the slow cooker at
night to once per month.
 
Analysis
 
43.  Section 22 of the Act states:
 
A landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s
occupancy of a rental unit and before the day on which an order evicting
the tenant is executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of
the rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all usual
purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.
 
44.  I accept that the Landlord’s cooking odours interfered
with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit; however, on the basis
of the evidence provided, I am satisfied that this interference was not
substantial. The cooking odours
were only an issue on four occasions during the 15-month tenancy, and the
Landlord altered her cooking regimen after the Tenant’s second complaint of the
odours – mitigating the problem. Occasional
cooking odours are a normal characteristic of a shared residential complex. I therefore find that the Landlord did not breach her responsibilities pursuant to
s. 22 of the Act.
 
Harassment – Receipts,
Odours & Noises,
and a Police Visit
 
45.  Section 23 of the Act states:
 
A landlord shall not harass, obstruct,
coerce, threaten or interfere with a
tenant.
 
46.  While there is no definition of “harassment” in the Act, the Ontario
Human Rights Code
defines “harassment” as:
 
engaging in a course of vexatious
comment or conduct
that is known or ought reasonably to be known to be
unwelcome.
 
Receipts
 
47.  The Tenant testified that, at the request of the
Landlord, he agreed to provide cash payments for the rent starting in February
2020; however, the Landlord did not provide him with a receipt for the rent for
February and March 2020. The Tenant
remarked that when he asked the Landlord for receipts, she was reluctant, but
ultimately provided a receipt for March 2020.
The Tenant submitted an audio recording and a text message screen shot of his request for rent receipts
from the Landlord,
as well as a rent receipt for March 2020 – dated March 1, 2020.




 
48.  The Tenant testified
further that he paid his rent through
e-transfers starting April
2020, and that this method of payment continued for the remainder of the
tenancy.
 
49.  The Landlord testified
that she provided
the Tenant rent receipts for the months
of February and March 2020.
 
Analysis
 
50.  On the basis of the evidence provided, and on a
balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that the Tenant did not receive a rent
payment receipt for the month of February 2020. However, I am not satisfied that this single
omission by the Landlord represents vexatious conduct that the Landlord should have known would be
unwelcome by the Tenant.
 
51.  I am satisfied that any reluctance by the Landlord to
provide the Tenant with a rent receipt for February
2020 was not for the purpose to annoy or harass the Tenant. The Tenant has not established that the Landlord’s failure to provide
him with a rent receipt for February 2020 was vexatious
conduct. I therefore find that the
Landlord did not breach her obligations with respect to s. 23 of the Act.
 
Odours and Noises
 
52.  The Tenant testified
that after complaining about cooking odour smells to the Landlord
on February 26, 2021, the Landlord began dropping heavy items on her
floor (the Tenant’s ceiling), and stomped around her floor for the purpose of
harassing the Tenant. The Tenant
stated that these noises occurred sporadically, not daily, during the day for
approximately two weeks after his February 26, 2021 complaint.
 
53.  The Tenant did not provide
audio recordings of this noise.
 
54.  The Landlord testified that she moved
her furniture the week after February 26, 2021, and that because she could not lift the
furniture, she had to slide it over her floor.
She remarked that she does not wear shoes in the house and did not stomp
on her floor at anytime after February 26, 2021.
 
Analysis
 
55.  On the basis of the evidence provided, I am satisfied
that the floor noises heard by the Tenant were the result of the Landlord
moving her furniture. However, I am
not satisfied that the Landlord moved furniture for the purpose of annoying and
harassing the Tenant as a result
of his complaint of cooking
odours on February
26, 2021. The Tenant has not established that the Landlord’s
furniture moving was intended to be vexatious
conduct. I therefore find that the Landlord did not breach her obligations
with respect to s. 23 of the Act.
 
56.  With respect to cooking odours,
on the basis of the evidence provided
in paragraphs 39 to 42 above, I am satisfied that the
Landlord’s generation of cooking odours was not willful for the purpose of
annoying and harassing the Tenant. The
Tenant has not established that the Landlord was cooking and creating odours
for vexatious reasons other than nourishment.
I find that the Landlord’s occasional use of a slow cooker at




 
night, with the associated cooking smells, is reasonable conduct.
I therefore find that the Landlord did not breach her
obligations with respect to s. 23 of the Act.
 
Police Visit
 
57.  The Tenant testified that on March 6, 2021 the police
attended the rental unit and questioned the Tenant regarding why he wanted to retain his tenancy given his strained
relationship with the Landlord. The Tenant stated that the police officers
suggested that moving out of
the rental unit could resolve his tenancy issues.
 
58.  The Tenant testified further that he believed the
Landlord called the police on March 6, 2021 as a result of a letter he provided
the Landlord on March 5, 2021 from ACORN Canada – a tenants
advocacy group. The Tenant submitted
this letter from ACORN that highlighted alleged issues regarding
the tenancy.
 
59.  The Landlord testified that she called the police on
March 6, 2021 because she felt frightened and bullied
by the Tenant on an on-going basis.
The Landlord remarked
that the ACORN Canada letter that she received from the Tenant on March
5, 2021 was intimidating, prompting her to finally call the police on March 6,
2021.
 
Analysis
 
60.  I accept that the relationship between the Tenant and
the Landlord had become increasingly strained during the course of this tenancy,
and that the Landlord felt intimidated by the ACORN Canada
letter on March 5, 2021. However, I am not satisfied,
on the basis of the evidence provided, that the tensions in the relationship
and the ACORN letter were reasonable reasons for the Landlord to call the
police on March 6, 2021.
 
61.  I find, on a balance of probabilities, that the
Landlord called the police on March 6, 2021 in direct response to the ACORN
letter, and as a means to annoy, pressure and harass the Tenant. The Landlord ought to have known that
having the police attend the rental unit would be unwelcome by the Tenant.
The Landlord did not establish that the Tenant’s conduct was sufficiently
threatening that a reasonable person would naturally call the police. For these reasons, I find that the
Landlord breached her obligations with respect to s. 23 of the Act.
 
Summary – T2 Application
 
62.  As noted in the preceding paragraphs, I find that the
Landlord did not withhold from the Tenant the vital service of heat, and
did not substantially interfere with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit. However, I find
that the Landlord did illegally enter
the rental unit on January
20, 2021, and did harass
the Tenant on March 6, 2021 by calling the police to attend the unit.
 
Remedy
 
63.   
The Tenant is seeking
the following remedies:




 
(a)    
compensation from the Landlord
of the Tenant’s rent difference of $250.00 per month for 12 months for a total of
$3000.00;
 
(b)    
compensation from the Landlord
of $674.30 representing the portion of the
Tenant’s $950.00 rent deposit allegedly not returned by the Landlord; and
 
(c)     
compensation from the Landlord
of $1281.00 in internet fees paid by the Tenant as
a result of the Landlord allegedly discontinuing this service.
 
64.  The Tenant applied for an order from the Board pursuant to s. 29(1) and of the Act. The Tenant did not apply for an order from the Board for money collected illegally pursuant to
s. 135(1) that states:
 
A tenant or former
tenant of a rental unit may apply to
the Board for an order
that the landlord, superintendent or agent of the landlord pay to the
tenant any money the person collected or retained in contravention of this Act or the Tenant Protection Act, 1997.
 
65.  Given that the Tenant did not apply to the Board for an order
that the Landlord
illegally retained a portion of his rent deposit, this allegation was
not considered during this hearing, and therefore, a remedy for this
allegation, as requested in paragraph 63(b) above can not be granted.
 
66.  Similarly, as explained in paragraphs 20 to 23 above, internet
service is not a vital service
pursuant to s. 2(1) of the
Act, and therefore the Tenant is unable
to apply to the Board for an
order pursuant to s. 29(1)2 of the Act for discontinued internet service.
 
67.  The Tenant did not apply for an order from the Board
for discontinued internet
service pursuant to s. 130(1) of the Act that states:
 
A tenant of a rental unit may apply to
the Board for an order for a reduction of the rent charged for the rental
unit due to a reduction
or discontinuance in services or facilities
provided in respect of the rental unit or the residential complex.
 
68.  Given that the Tenant did not apply to the Board for
an order determining that the Landlord discontinued the provision of internet service
to the rental unit, this allegation
was not considered during this hearing, and therefore, a remedy for this allegation, as requested in
paragraph 63(c) above can not be granted.
 
Rent Difference
 
69.  The Tenant testified
that the Landlord’s harassing conduct of calling the police to the unit on March 6, 2021, and the police
suggestion that moving may be appropriate, caused him to vacate the unit on April 1, 2021. The Tenant stated that the rent in his new rental unit is
$1200.00 per month, an increase of $250.00 per month from the $950.00 per month
rent he previously paid. The Tenant
submitted bank statements of his $1200.00 per month rent payments. The Tenant requests compensation from the
Landlord of the Tenant’s rent difference of $250.00 per month for 12 months for
a total of $3000.00.




 
70.  The Tenant testified
further that his new rental
unit is a small studio
apartment in an apartment building that is similar in
size to his previous unit.
 
71.  I am satisfied that
the Landlord’s conduct on March
6, 2021 caused the Tenant to vacate the rental unit. I accept that the Tenant’s previous rental unit and his current rental
unit may be similar in size; however, the Tenant’s previous
rental unit was in the basement of an old house, and his current
rental unit is a studio apartment in an apartment
building. I find that the inherent
differences in these two residential structures would account for a higher rent
in the apartment building, and improved living conditions for the Tenant. For these reasons, pursuant to s. 31(2) of
the Act, I award the Tenant 20% of the difference in rent that he paid for a
period of 12 months after he vacated the rental unit - for a total amount of
$600.00.
 
It is ordered
that:
 
1.     The Landlord shall
pay to the Tenant $10.51 which is the cost that the Tenant has incurred for repairing the toilet.
 
2.     The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant $600.00 which is 20% of the rent difference cost that the Tenant incurred for 12 months after he vacated the
rental unit.
 
3.    
The Landlord shall pay the Tenant the full amount owing of
$610.51 by March
15, 2022.
 
4.    
If the Landlord does not pay the
Tenant the full amount owing by March 15, 2022, the Landlord will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from March 16, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
 
 
February 14, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Frank Ebner
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East, Suite 700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

