Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-18
File number:	
TNT-19603-19

Citation:	TNT-19603-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 122614 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp4m>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-19603-19
 
 
 
 
RN (the 'Tenant') applied for an
order determining that SZ (the 'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced,
threatened or interfered with the Tenant, entered the rental unit illegally and substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or by a
member of the Tenant's household.
 
This application was heard in Passcode:
970 9167 7558# on October
14, 2021.
 
The Tenant, the Landlord
and the Landlord’s representative, AV, attended
the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
As a preliminary matter, the
Landlord submitted that subsection 5(i) of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 (the ‘Act’)
operated to exempt
the Tenant’s accommodation from the operation
of the Act. The Landlord submitted
that she owned the residential complex, a house, that she has lived in the
house since before the Tenant’s occupancy commenced and that the Tenant
was required to share a kitchen with the
Landlord during the time that
the Tenant occupied the unit.
 
2.    
The Tenant testified that the Landlord
never lived in the house
during the time that
the Tenant lived there.
 
3.    
The testimony of the Tenant
and the Landlord were in direct contradiction on the question of the
Landlord’s residency at the house. Relevant
portions of the parties’ oral evidence was as follows:
 
a)    
The Landlord testified that:
 
(i)                
She purchased the house in May 2013 and moved into the house then;




 
(ii)               
She has lived in the house since
that time, including at the time the Tenant moved into the house
and throughout the time that the Tenant
occupied her unit;
 
(iii)             
She did not, as suggested by the Tenant,
live in a condominium
– at
the time the Tenant moved
into the house or at any other time;
 
(iv)             
The house had a total of five
bedrooms. Four were occupied by various roommates (including the Tenant),
who differed from time to time.
and one was occupied by the Landlord.
The Landlord and one of the upstairs roommates (not the Tenant) shared
one of the two upstairs bathrooms and another upstairs roommate had her own
ensuite bathroom. Two other roommates (including the Tenant) shared the main floor bathroom. All occupants (including the Landlord and the Tenant)
shared the kitchen, which was located on the main floor;
 
(v)              
The house
had a separate unit in the basement, with its own bathroom and kitchen, but none of the Landlord or
the roommates used those facilities;
 
(vi)             
The Landlord does not, and did not at any material
time, own any other
property;
 
(vii)           
The Landlord kept all her clothes
at the house, using a walk-in closet in a hallway;
 
(viii)         
The Landlord had a sister who
lived close by. The Landlord visited
her sister often, as they had a close relationship. She did
not live with her sister as there was
no room for her to live there. If
weather was bad when she visited her sister,
she would stay overnight in her sister’s
family room or office/guest room; and
 
(ix)             
The residential tenancy agreement
signed by the Landlord and the Tenant (Exhibit 1) showed the Landlord’s
address as the address of the house.
 
b)    
The Tenant testified that:
 
(i)                
The day before the Tenant
moved into the unit she met with the Landlord.
The Landlord told her during that meeting that she lived in a condominium down the
street;
 
(ii)               
The Landlord
told the Tenant
that day that the kitchen
and bathrooms would
be shared;
 
(iii)             
The Landlord did not live in one of the bedrooms;
 
(iv)             
The Landlord frequented the house
and collected her mail from the house;




 
(v)              
At the time the Tenant was forced to vacate the unit there were
a total of five tenants occupying all five of the bedrooms.
There was no bedroom available that the Landlord could have
used; and
 
(vi)             
Another one of the tenants told the Tenant
that the Landlord
lived with her sister.
 
4.    
In that the oral testimony of the two parties was in direct contradiction on the question
of the Landlord’s residency at the house, I considered documentary
evidence admitted as exhibits during the hearing.
 
5.    
The Landlord referred to her driver’s licence (Exhibit 2 and to records
from her pharmacy (Exhibit 3), both of which identified her address as the address
of the house. I do not find either of these documents
determinative. The fact that the
Landlord provided this address for her drivers licence and apparently collected
her prescription medication from this address does not necessarily mean that
she lived there. I note that the
Tenant testified that the Landlord collected her mail from the house and this
evidence would be consistent with the Landlord collecting her medication from
the pharmacy in this way.
 
6.    
The Tenant referred to an email
(Exhibit 4) sent by one of the other tenants (‘MJ’) to the City of Markham on August 30, 2019,
the day before the Tenant left the house. Details of this email, and of the Tenant’s
testimony about it, were as follows
 
a)    
The email stated, “We are 4 people living
in a rooming house which realized [sic]
the house is illegal to be rented as a rooming house. It’s been about
three or four years that she is renting the house as a rooming. The landlord
lives here and ….”. The email went on
to list a series of complaints about the Landlord;
 
b)    
Four names, including that of the Tenant, appeared
at the bottom of the email as signatories;
 
c)     
The Tenant testified that she was
not involved in the drafting of the email. She
was aware that the email was being prepared in that one of the other tenants asked her if she would support a complaint about the
Landlord and she agreed. She did not see the contents of the email until a copy
was sent to her several days later;
 
d)    
She testified that at the time the email was written
there were five, not four, tenants
living in the house. The fifth did not want to participate and so her name did
not appear on the email. This explained why the email referred to only 4 complainants;
and
 
e)    
When asked, on cross-examination, why the email stated that the Landlord
lived in the house, the Tenant testified that
those who drafted the email did not speak Engliish well.




 
7.    
I
find that the substance of the email tips the weight of evidence in favour of the Landlord. The email, written by occupants
of the unit on the day before the Tenant vacated, expressly stated that the
Landlord lived at the house. The phrase is a
simple one and the English in the email is fairly clear. I find that it is more likely than not that the phrase was
included because it was a fact
rather than because
the drafter’s command
of English was poor. Even if the Tenant did not see and approve
the substance of the email before it was
sent, and I accept that this may well have been the case, the drafter saw fit
to expressly include this information about the Landlord. The Tenant gave no indication that she
made any effort to communicate with the City, or with the people who drafted
the email, about correcting the statement.
 
8.    
I find that it is more likely than
not that the Landlord lived in the house. There was no dispute about the fact that there was only one kitchen
in the shared portion of the house and so I also find that it is more
likely than not that the Tenant was obliged to share the kitchen with the
Landlord.
 
9.    
I find that the exemption in subsection
5(i) of the Act applies to exempt the Tenant’s accommodation from the operation of the Act and that the Tenant’s
application must be dismissed.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Tenant’s application is dismissed.
 
February 18, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Lynn Mitchell
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East,
Suite 700, 7th Floor
Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

