Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-14
File number:	
TNT-31907-21

Citation:	Shalaev v Talero, 2022 CanLII 122591 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp57>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-31907-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


141 WHITBURN CRESCENT NORTH YORK ON M3M2S6


 




Between:


Victor Shalaev


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Andreas (Gerardo) Talero


Landlord



 
 
Victor Shalaev (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Andreas (Gerardo) Talero (the 'Landlord')
harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with him, and
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit or residential complex
by the Tenant or by a member
of their household.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on January 27, 2022. The Tenant
and the Landlord were present
at the hearing.
 
Preliminary Issue – Status
of the Tenancy Respondent’s Evidence
1.     The Respondent, Andreas
(Gerardo) Talero, testified
that the rental unit at 141 Whitburn Crescent in North York is a
single detached house containing just one rental unit. He testified that he is himself a tenant, and not a landlord or
owner. He resides in the basement
portion of the house and the Applicant Victor Shalaev was his roommate who
resided on the top floor. Mr. Shalaev
vacated the rental unit on April 30, 2021.
 
2.    
The Respondent testified that he has
been renting the entire rental unit from the owners, Alex and Rosetta Angelina,
since 2013. The Respondent submitted a lease for the rental unit identifying
him as the tenant of 141 Whitburn Crescent for the period of May 15, 2017 to May 14, 2018 and monthly
thereafter. The Respondent also submitted an N1
Notice of Rent Increase from the Landlords (N1), dated October 7, 2021, that
identifies him as the tenant of the rental unit.
 
3.     The Respondent stated
that he signed
a Room Rental Agreement with the Applicant on October 19, 2019, and that he never signed an agreement to
sublet his tenancy to the Applicant, nor did he ever vacate his rental unit
during the Applicant’s residence in the rental unit from November 1, 2019 to
April 30, 2021.




 
Applicant’s Evidence
 
4.     The Applicant testified that the Respondent always
represented himself as a landlord during his residency at the rental unit. The Applicant submitted the Room Rental
Agreement he signed with the Respondent on October 19, 2019. The Applicant noted that on this Room Rental Agreement, he is listed as a tenant,
and the Respondent signed the agreement as an agent of the Landlord. The Applicant also remarked that the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the
“Act”) is referenced in the Room Rental Agreement.
 
5.    
The Applicant testified further that the Respondent’s residence in the
basement of the rental unit had its own entrance,
kitchen and washroom,
and was completely separate
from his residence on the top floor of the rental unit.
 
Analysis
 
6.    
I accept that the Applicant, on the basis of
the use of the words “tenant” and “landlord” in the Room Rental Agreement, believed that he was a tenant and
the Respondent was a landlord. However,
for the reasons that follow, the use of the terms “tenant” and “landlord” in
the Room Rental Agreement does not result in these parties’ relationship being subject
to the Act, and this was in fact an agreement to share part of the rental unit with the Respondent who is the
tenant.
 
7.     I am
satisfied that the rental unit in this matter is the entire
single detached house
at 141 Whitburn Crescent in
North York consisting of just one rental unit, as listed in the lease and N1
submitted by the Respondent, and as listed in the Room Rental Agreement and T2
Application submitted by the Applicant.
 
8.     In order for the Act to apply, there must be tenancy
agreement entered by a “tenant”
and a “landlord”.
 
9.     The term “landlord” is defined in section 2(1) of the Act, in part, as follows:
 
“landlord” includes,
(a)              
the owner of a rental unit or any
other person who permits occupancy of a rental
unit, other than a tenant who occupies
a rental unit in a residential complex and who permits another
person to also occupy the unit or any part of the unit
 
[emphasis added]
 
10.  The Respondent is not the owner of the rental unit. In addition, on the basis of the submitted lease, N1 and Room Rental
Agreement, I am satisfied that the Respondent is a tenant occupying
the single rental unit at 141 Whitburn Crescent who has permitted another
person, the Applicant, to occupy a part of that single rental unit. For these reasons, I find that the
Respondent is not a landlord of the rental unit.
 
11.  I have also considered whether
the Applicant could be considered a “subtenant” under the Act. Section 2(1) of the Act defines a subtenant as the person
to whom a tenant




 
gives the right under section 97 to occupy
a rental unit. Section 2(2) defines “subletting as follows:
2) For the
purposes of this Act, a reference to subletting a rental unit refers to the
situation in which,
(a)          
the tenant vacates the rental unit;
(b)          
the tenant gives one or more other persons the right to occupy the rental
unit for a term ending on a specified date before the end of the tenant’s term
or period; and
(c)          
the tenant has the right to resume
occupancy of the rental unit after that specified date.
 
12.  Therefore, for a subtenancy to exist under the Act, the tenant
must vacate the rental unit during the subtenancy. The Respondent did not vacate the rental unit during the period of the
Applicant’s residence at the rental unit. Therefore,
I find that the Respondent did not sublet his tenancy of the rental unit to the
Applicant pursuant to s. 97(1) of the Act, and the Applicant is not a subtenant
pursuant to s. 2(1) of the Act.
 
13.  I further find that the Applicant was a roommate of
the Respondent and/or an occupant during the period November 1, 2019 to April
30, 2021. The Board’s Interpretation Guideline 21 for residential tenancies
defines an occupant as a person who is not a tenant but who lives in a
rental unit as their principal place of residence. In addition, Guideline 21 defines
a roommate as a person
who, like an occupant, shares a room with a tenant or shares a
rental unit or part of it with a tenant.
 
14.  The Applicant, as an occupant
and roommate of the rental unit and not a tenant, cannot apply to the Board pursuant to s.
29(1) of the Act alleging substantial interference of reasonable enjoyment and
harassment. For this reason, the
Applicant’s application cannot be considered by the Board.
 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.    
The Applicant’s application is dismissed.
 
 
 
February 14, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Frank Ebner
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East, Suite 700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

