Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-10
File number:	
TNT-26714-20

Citation:	Liverance v Westwood Management International, 2022 CanLII 56752 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq1c4>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
 
 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-26714-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


801, 2101 ISLINGTON AVENUE ETOBICOKE ON M9P3R2


 




Between:


Daniel Liverance Jessica Ashkewe-jones


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Westwood
Management International


Landlord



 
 
 
Daniel Liverance
and Jessica Ashkewe-jones (the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that Westwood Management International
(the 'Landlord') substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their household.
 
This application was heard via video conference
on November 12, 2021.
 
The Tenant
Daniel Liverance (‘D.L.’), the Tenant’s Legal Representative, Joseph Behar, the
Landlord’s Representative Brenda
Lee Cornish and the Landlord’s Legal
Representative Leo Corsetti
attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Tenants’
application is based on section
22 of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 (the ‘Act’) which reads as follows:
 
A landlord
shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit and before
the day on which an order evicting the tenant is executed substantially
interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all
usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.
 
2.    
The wording of the
above noted section refers to the behaviour of the Landlord and not the behaviour
of third parties.
However, this section
has been interpreted to mean that if
a Tenant complains about a third party to the Landlord and the Landlord does not
respond reasonably to the complaint, then a Landlord can be held liable for the
subsequent behaviour of the third party.




 
Evidence:
 
3.    
D.L. states that from
June 7, 2019 to when D.L. vacated
the rental unit on
April 30, 2020, he was subjected to excessive noise
consisting of thumping which was described as a bowling ball on the
floor, stomping, smashing and
screaming coming from the unit above
the Tenants. D.L. also testified that in
December, 2019, the stomping
and rattling noises were so loud
that items in his apartment shook. D.L.
described the noises as being similar to furniture being moved or scrapped across
the floor, a dresser being
tipped over and that they were
not common sounds one would expect in a high-rise residential building.
 
4.    
D.L. states that the
noise was at any time of day or night, lasting at times for 15-20 minutes and other times up to three to four hours.
D.L. testified that the noise
interrupted him on average three to five times a week.
 
5.    
D.L. testified that he contacted building security to lodge complaints about
noise as they were his first line of defence. Building security responded to the
majority of the noise complaints lodged by the Tenants and D.L. states that he
believed his complaints were also forwarded to building management.
 
6.    
D.L. states
that he also informed property
management of these
noise incidents via email
communications, spoke in property management and also made noise complaints via
telephone. D.L. documented when he
heard noise, described the noise and identified when he contacted security
personnel in the rental building to lodge complaints. D.L. stated that he believed the noises were coming from the
unit above him.
 
7.    
D.L. emailed
management on October
21, 2019 to complain
about a stomping noise and that the general stomping noise occurs almost every day. He asked that the Tenant be evicted. In response, the Landlord delivered a
warning letter regarding excessive noise to the Tenants above D.L.’s unit on
November 11, 2019.
 
8.    
The Landlord’s Agent (‘B.C’) testified
that after she sent a warning letter
to the Tenants above D.L., she was not made aware of any noise
complaints from the Tenants until April, 2020 at which time, D.L. contacted her
to complain about noise coming from the unit above his. Evidence tendered at the hearing from D.L. showed email communications
to the Landlord regarding noise on October 21, 2019, November 24, 2019 and
April 15, 2020 when he also stated he would be ending his tenancy.
 
9.    
As a result of B.C. receiving a noise complaint from the Tenants in the afternoon of April
15, 2020, B.C. immediately attended the offending unit. Prior to knocking on their door,
B.C. stood outside to listen
for any noise and heard no noise for approximately one and
a half minutes. When B.C. did
knock on the door to investigate further, the mother complained to B.C. that
there have been times where the family was woken up in the middle of the night
by security with complaints about noise coming from their unit and it was
untrue. Indeed, there is a security
report dated March 4, 2020 at 23:55 hours where security attended the unit above D.L. due to a
noise complaint stating that children were running around. The notation from security states that
upon their attendance at the unit,




 
they observed
the children to be sleeping
and found the complaint to be unsubstantiated.
 
10. 
The Landlord’s evidence is that noise complaints from the Tenants
were documented by security, investigated by security
personnel and determined to be unsubstantiated. As a result, no formal
notice such as an N5 notice of termination was served.
 
11.  The Landlord’s Agent (‘B.C’) testified
that D.L. would have been subjected
to everyday traffic noise
through the windows in his rental unit due to its proximity to the Toronto
airport and to major Highways 401 and 427 to which D.L. denied. As well, each rental unit is encased with concrete and that it would be almost impossible to hear the noises that D.L. complains of, especially
noise so loud to cause the Tenants unit to shake.
 
The Law/Analysis:
 
12.  In Hassan v. Niagara Housing Authority,
[2000] O.J. No. 5650, the Divisional Court held that a Landlord who fails to take reasonable steps to address
substantial interference with reasonable enjoyment by one Tenant of
another Tenant can be found to have substantially interfered with the
complainant Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex.
 
13.  Therefore,
the question to be answered
is whether the Landlord substantially interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment by not
reasonably addressing complaints brought to it by the Tenant.
 
14. 
B.C. did acknowledge that the Landlord
received complaints from D.L. and testified that as
a result, a warning
letter was sent to the Tenants living above D.L. on November
11, 2019. She then received no
complaints from the Tenants until April, 2020.
 
15.  Evidence at the hearing was that various
security personnel investigated noise complaints when they were received from D.L. and B.C. personally investigated a
complaint from D.L. on April 15, 2020. Upon
investigation, the complaints were unsubstantiated.
 
16.  Had the Landlord been able to substantiate
any of the noise complaints from the unit above D.L., the proper course of
action would have been for it to serve an N5 notice of termination and if necessary, file an application seeking
termination of the Tenants above
D.L. However,
the Landlord cannot
have been expected
to go that route based on
unsubstantiated noise complaints.
 
17.  Here, the Landlord and its agents responded
reasonably to the complaints in that the issue
was investigated, security
personnel and B.C. attended to determine the source of the noise and could
not substantiate the Tenants’
complaints. As a result, based on the
evidence, submissions and on a balance of probabilities, I do not believe that
the Landlord was in breach of section 22 of the Act.




 
18. 
The Tenant’s
application should therefore
be dismissed.
 
19.  This order contains
all of the reasons in this matter and no further reasons
will be issued.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Tenants’
application is dismissed.
 
 
 
January 10, 2022 Date Issued
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite
700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

