Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-07
File number:	
TNT-18613-19

Citation:	TNT-18613-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 56774 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq1bx>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
30
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-18613-19
 
 
 
 
MA (the
'Tenant') applied for an order determining that XXX OL (the 'Landlord') failed
to meet the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') or failed to comply with
health, safety, housing or maintenance standards.
 
This application was heard by videoconference
on October 14, 2021.
 
The Tenant and the Landlord's agents PM
and TA attended the hearing.
 
Reasons:
 
1.    
This application, filed on August 8, 2019, concerns
an electrical panel and a coin-
operated laundry facility provided by the Landlord.
 
2.    
In short summary of the
Tenant’s application, the Tenant asserts that the washer and dryer have
consistently been in and out of service since her tenancy commenced on
September 1, 2018 and that the dryer has been completely out of service since
the beginning of June 2019. In particular, the Tenant pleads that the washer
and/or dryer were out of service in the first few weeks of September 2018, the
last two weeks of November 2018, approximately one week in mid-December 2018,
roughly two weeks total in March
2019 and approximately two weeks total between April and May 2019.
The Tenant asserts that the dryer has been out of service between June 2019 and
August 2019 because the electrical panel is inadequate to meet the requirements
of the residential complex.
 
Evidence
 
3.    
The Tenant’s testimony
mirrored her pleadings. However, the Tenant also testified that the situation
with the laundry
was about 50% better after August 2019, in that one or the
other of the washer or the dryer was out of service for a few days or a week at
a time instead of two weeks. The Tenant described the various issues after
August 2019 as




 
being that the
machines were sometimes unplugged, sometimes filled with water, sometimes not
spinning and that they would
sometimes eat her coins or return her coins without performing their
task. The Tenant also explained that the Landlord replaced a problematic electrical panel in and around the summer of 2020 and that this resolved the issue. The Tenant testified that she
stopped communicating with the Landlord about the laundry after filing the
application.
 
4.    
Mr. M testified that the laundry
facilities were installed after he bought
the building and that there
were never any problems until the dryer started tripping the electrical panel.
He testified that the Landlords addressed any issues as fast as they could.
Although he was not certain when the electrical panel was replaced, Mr.M
testified that the panel was probably replaced in August 2020.
 
5.    
Ms. A admitted that
during the summer of 2019 there was a heatwave and that the Landlord chose to
prioritize the AC over the laundry because the electrical panel could not
sustain the use of both the washer and the dryer. She first explained that Mr.
M unplugged the dryer between
June 2019 and August 2019 but later
testified that the dryer was
only unplugged for 3-weeks. Ms. A stated that this was the only time the
laundry was not working and that washer was working during this time.
 
6.    
That being said, Ms. A also testified
that there were sometimes problems
with the machines when some
tenants would jam coins into the coin counter, which would in turn create
problems with the switchboard. She explained that the Landlord hires an
external company to maintain the machines and every
time a problem was reported or discovered the Landlord would call that
company promptly. The time to rectify the problem would depend on the nature of the issue (e.g. a problem
requiring a replacement part could take more time to resolve than a problem
that could be addressed by a technician immediately). Ms. A could recall one
incident in September 2018 where the machines were not working for less than a
week and one incident in November 2018 where the belt in one of the machines
was broken.
 
Analysis
 
7.    
Section 20 of the Act provides:
 
20 (1) A landlord
is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in it,
in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with health,
safety, housing and maintenance standards.
 
8.    
This provision is
discussed in Board Interpretation Guideline 5, Breach of Maintenance
Obligations. There, it is noted that the obligation to maintain residential
premises is not subject to whether the landlord has available funds. It is
further noted that this obligation extends beyond the rental unit occupied by
the tenant to include facilities and common areas provided by the landlord, including
laundry facilities. It is also noted that the Board’s jurisprudence on this issue
supports the principle that no abatement or other remedy should be ordered if
the landlord has responded to a maintenance issue appropriately and within a reasonable period.




 
9.    
Bearing in mind the
limitation period in subsection 29(2) of the Act, which states that no application may be made more than one year after the day the alleged
conduct giving rise to the application occurred, the relevant period of time
for this application is August 8, 2018 to October 14, 2021. However, as the
Tenant admitted that the issues with the laundry were resolved by August 2020,
the period at issue ends July 31, 2020.
 
10.  According
to the tenancy agreement, the services and facilities included
in the lawful rent for the
rental unit include “on-site laundry” that is “pay per use”. The effect of this
provision in the tenancy agreement is that the Landlord was not entitled to
unilaterally reduce or discontinue the dryer in the residential complex.
 
11.  With respect to the laundry issues prior to
June 2019, the Tenant’s evidence was vague. By this I mean that the Tenant did
not introduce any documentary evidence, did not particularize the exact dates the machines
were not working,
did not identify the particular
issue affecting the machines on any given day and did not particularize the
exact dates the Tenant reported these issues to the Landlord. This, combined
with the fact that the uncontested testimony of the Landlord’s agents was that
they promptly addressed any issues as they arose by calling their external
service provider, leads me to conclude that the Tenant did not prove these
allegations on the balance of probabilities. Although the machines may not have
worked for short periods of time, the Landlord’s response was timely and
reasonable.
 
12.  With respect to the laundry
issues from June 2019 onwards, both parties agreed that the
root cause of the issue
was the inadequate electrical panel.
Because the panel could not meet the requirements of the
residential complex the Landlord unilaterally decided to unplug the dryer. I
accept the Tenant’s evidence that the dryer was not functional from June 2019
to August 2019 because Ms. A also admitted this was true before changing her
testimony.
 
13.  There are two different ways of looking at
this issue. The first is that the electrical panel was not in a good state of
repair, that this directly affected the Tenants’ ability to do laundry at the
residential complex and that the Tenant is entitled to an abatement under
paragraph 30(1)2 of the Act. The second is that the Landlord reduced or
discontinued a service or facility provided in respect of the rental unit and
that the Tenant is entitled to a rent reduction or rebate under subsection
130(3) of the Act. Although the Tenant did not apply under section 130 of the Act, I accept the Board’s reasoning
in TST-69731-16 (Re), 2018 CanLII 140410 (ON LTB) and
find that it would not be inappropriate or unfair to consider these provisions
due to the fact that the Tenant is not legally sophisticated and more likely
than not erred in using the wrong form.
 
14.  Viewing this as a reduction
in services or facilities, I do not find the Landlord’s decision
to temporarily discontinue the dryer service to be reasonable. While I
understand that the Landlord chose to prioritize the provision of
air-conditioning, the reasonable solution would have been to fix the
problematic electrical panel. The result of this finding is that the two
factors relevant to the appropriate remedy are: the value of the service or
facility (meaning the rental value of the service or facility), including the
cost to the tenant or former tenant of replacing the discontinued service or facility;
and, the effect of the discontinuance on the tenant or former tenant.




 
 
 
15.  Although the Tenant did not provide any
evidence about a cost differential or any transportation costs, she did provide
testimony about the value of the laundry facilities and the effect of its discontinuance. She explained that laundry facilities at the residential complex was one of the
reasons she chose to rent at the residential complex. This is in part because
the Tenant has an 8-year old daughter, does not drive and has to laundry
approximately 3 times per week. She stated that lack of access to a dryer made
it more difficult to do laundry and that it took more time to do the laundry,
in part because she had to rely on taxis and Uber.
 
16.  In these circumstances, I find that the Tenant’s
position that a rent reduction of 10% or
$149.50 per
month is fair and reasonable. In Levman v 1398154 Ontario Limited, 2020
CanLII 117936 (ON LTB), the Board recently found that a rent reduction of 5% or
$67.50 per month was the appropriate rent reduction where the discontinuance of
the laundry facilities was reasonable. In circumstances where I have found that
the discontinuance of the laundry facility was not reasonable, a greater
reduction is warranted because of the effect
of the temporary discontinuance on the Tenant.
The Tenant lost the convenience of the laundry facilities and had to spend much more time doing
the laundry than if the Landlord had not discontinued the dryer. The total
reduction or rebate awarded will therefore be $448.50: $149.50 per month x 3-months. I would reach the same
conclusion if I had considered this under the rubric of a maintenance issue
with the electrical panel.
 
17.  As for the period between September 2019 and August 2020 and despite
the fact that the
Landlord did not replace the electrical panel until August 2020, the Tenant’s
evidence suggested that the electrical panel was no longer the cause of any
laundry issues during this period. I say this because the Tenant’s evidence was
that either the washer or dryer was out of service for a few days or a week at
a time because the machines were either unplugged, filled with water, not
spinning and eating or returning her coins. Since these are new issues, I
cannot find that the Landlord knew or ought reasonably to have known about
these issues unless they were reported to the Landlord by the Tenant. My
conclusion is that the Tenant is not entitled to a remedy for this period
because the Tenant admitted that she did not communicate with the Landlord
about the laundry
issues after filing the application in August 2020.
 
18.  For the sake of completeness, the Tenant requested
that the Board order the Landlord to upgrade the electrical panel
and install an additional washer
and dryer. The Landlord has already upgraded the electrical panel
and the Board does not have the jurisdiction to order the Landlord to provide a
new service or facility.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenant a rent rebate of $448.50.
 
2.    
The Landlord
shall also pay the Tenant $45.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
3.      
The total
amount the Landlord
owes the Tenant
is $498.50.
 
4.    
The Landlord shall pay the Tenant
the full amount
owing by January
18, 2022.




 
5.    
If the Landlord does
not pay the Tenant the full amount owing by January 18, 2022 the Landlord will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from January
19, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the outstanding
balance.
 
 




January 7, 2022 Date Issued
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite 700, 7th Floor
Toronto ON M2N5X5



 
 
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

