Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-14
File number:	
TNT-30615-21

Citation:	Brown v BPM Bridg Property Management, 2022 CanLII 122604 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp52>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-30615-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


LOWER, 37 SANTA
BARBARA PLACE WOODBRIDGE ON
  L4L6V9


 




Between:


Adam Brown
Sarah-Jane Doncaster


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


BPM Bridg Property Management BDC Limited


Landlords



 
 
 
Adam Brown (‘AB’) and Sarah-Jane
Doncaster (‘SD’) (the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that BDC Limited
(‘BDC’) and BPM Bridg Property
Management (the 'Landlords') entered the rental unit
illegally.
 
This application was heard
in Passcode: 956 0593 7653# on November
4, 2021.
 
The Tenant AB, on behalf of both Tenants,
N. Bridgmohan (‘NB’) for the Landlords and the
Landlords’ representative, C. Johnson, attended the hearing.
 
As a preliminary matter,
NB testified that the correct
name of the owner, being
the Landlord, was BDC Limited, of which NB is
president. The names on the
application have been amended to replace the name of NB with that of BDC
Limited and that correction is reflected in this order.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Tenants allege that on January
26, 2021, NB and the Landlord’s Property Facilitor (the ‘PF’) entered the unit illegally. The entry resulted
in an altercation between NB and
the Tenants. The altercation soured
the relationship between the Tenants and NB in such a way as to interfere with
the Tenants’ substantial enjoyment of the unit going forward.
 
2.    
I
find, as follows,
that the Tenants
have failed to establish that NB and the PF entered the unit illegally. The Landlord gave less than 24 hours
advance written notice of entry. However I find that it is more likely than not
that NB and the PF entered the unit with the consent of the Tenant AB.




 
3.    
The following facts were
undisputed:
 
a)     The Tenant AB sent an email to the Landlord’s property
manager on January 19, 2021 (Refer Exhibit 1, being series of emails between
the Tenant AB and the Landlord’s property manager,
from January 19, 2021 through
January 25, 2021). The
email contained photos pertaining to requested repair issues at the unit. The
Tenant AB indicated that he had hurt his foot on the damaged floor. The
property manager responded that the Landlord would address the issues and
indicted that the response would
likely occur by January 26, 2021;
 
b)    
The property manager sent a follow
up email to the Tenant
AB on January 20, 2021 to advise that, following discussion with
NB, the decision had been made to put off responding on the repairs in light of
COVID. The issues did not constitute
an emergency. The Tenants were
advised to give notice if the condition worsened;
 
c)     
On January 25, 2021 the Tenants
attempted to contact NB several times by phone. They called the property management office at least twice, left a message,
then called another number to
request that NB and the property manager be paged. These calls were accompanied
by an email from the Tenant AB which, in essence, characterized the issues as
urgent and demanded a prompt response. The
email stated, in part, “How hurt do I need
to be?...So in our opinion this issue greatly
interferes with our use and
enjoyment of the rental unit…please get back to me ASAP more so [sic] by end of business day today I’d like a phone
call”…;
 
d)    
NB responded by taking a call from
the Tenants. The Tenant AB testified
that the phone used by the Tenants
ran out of battery, ending
the call in the middle
of the call. NB believed that the Tenants had hung up on her;
 
e)     Despite the earlier decision that the Tenants’ issues
did not constitute an emergency, NB decided that a visit to the unit was in
order in light of the concerns raised by the Tenants and in light of the
urgency ascribed to the issues by the Tenants.
An email was sent to the Tenants
shortly after 4:00pm
on January 25th. It indicated that NB and the PF would be coming to the unit
between 8:00 am and 1:00 pm the following day;
 
f)       NB and the PF attended at the unit at 8:00 am the
following day. The circumstances of
the actual entry are disputed, as set out below. The parties agree that an altercation ensued. NB questioned the identity of a third
person who appeared to be staying in the unit and started taking pictures or a video. The Tenant SD objected
and knocked NB’s phone from her hands. NB took the position that SB had
hit her; and
 
g)     NB called the police, who attended the residential
complex and spoke to the parties. No charges were laid but the police suggested that certain steps be taken to minimize contact between the Tenant SC and
NB, and between the Tenants and the Property Facilitator, who was to do the
repair work. There is no evidence
that the Tenants complained to the police of an illegal entry;




 
4.    
The parties disputed the circumstances of the entry itself, as follows:
 
a)     The Tenant AB testified that when NB and the PF
attended at the unit, both the Tenants were asleep in bed. He testified
that NB and PF did not knock but opened the
door and entered the unit; and
 
b)    
NB testified that she and the PF
knocked at the unit door. She had no
idea whether the door was locked or not as neither she nor the PF tried the
door. She initially testified that AB
had let them into the unit. She
changed her testimony later in the hearing, when testifying about information she had given to the police, to say that the
third party occupant let them into the unit;
 
5.    
I find that it is more
likely than not that the third party occupant gave NB and the PF
entry on the morning of January 26th with the consent of the Tenants. The Tenants expected the arrival of NB and the PF and had themselves pushed for a speedy response from NB to their
complaints. The Tenant AB testified that he was in bed when the entry took
place so I must infer that he did not witness the actual entry. The third person did not appear to
testify. I prefer the direct
testimony of NB on this point over the unsubstantiated assertion of a person who did not witness the event. I also find, in light of
NB’s understanding that the Tenants had hung up on her the previous day, that
she was unlikely to effectively break into the unit unannounced.
 
6.    
I
find that the Tenants have failed to establish that the Landlord
entered the unit illegally
on January 26, 2021. The Tenants’
application must be dismissed.
 
7.    
The Landlord’s representative
requested, at the end of the hearing, that costs be awarded against
the Tenants for having brought
a frivolous and vexatious application.
 
8.    
The Board’s Interpretation
Guideline 3 on Costs notes that in most cases the only costs allowed witl be
the application fee, awarded to a successful applicant. Other costs are
generally awarded in cases of unreasonable conduct,
which may include
the bringing of a
frivolous or vexatious application. The mere fact that a party is unsuccessful
in an application does render the application frivolous or vexatious. The Board
must not use its power to order
costs in a way which would discourage landlords and tenants from exercising
their statutory rights. The Tenants
were within their rights to bring this application. The request for costs is denied.




 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.     The Tenants’ application is dismissed,
 
 
February 14, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Lynn Mitchell
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East,
Suite 700, 7th Floor
Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

