Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-16
File number:	
TNT-25457-20

Citation:	Tieu v Li, 2022 CanLII 122625 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp4q>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 30
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-25457-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


BASEMENT, 448 LYNETT
CRESCENT RICHMOND HILL ON L4C2V7


 




Between:


Linda Tieu
  Phat Tieu


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Peng Li


Landlord



 
 
 
Linda Tieu and
Phat Tieu (the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that Peng Li (the
'Landlord') failed to meet the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') or failed to comply with
health, safety, housing or maintenance standards.
 
This application was heard by
videoconference on October
1, 2021, with two subsequent interim orders issued. Interim
order dated December 6, 2021 requested the parties to provide final written
submission on or before December 31, 2021.
 
The Tenant Phat Tieu,
the Tenants’ interpreter T. Lai, the Landlord and the Landlord’s representative R. Yu attended
the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.   
The Tenant brought a T6 Application, pursuant to s.29(1) Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
(the ‘Act’), which alleges the Landlord has breached an obligation under
s.20(1):
 
A landlord is responsible for
providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in it, in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with
health, safety, housing and maintenance standards
 
2.   
The monthly rent
was $800.00. The Tenants moved into
the rental unit in July 2019. The
Tenants were still in possession of the rental unit at the time the application
was heard.
 
Preliminary Issue
 
3.    Pursuant to my interim order dated October 25, 2021, I
requested that the Tenants advise the Board on or before November 9, 2021 as to
whether or not they intended to proceed with allegation #10 in their
application, namely that the driveway was poorly maintained and that one of the Tenants
had suffered an injury as a result
(the “Driveway Ice




 
Allegation”). On November 1, 2021, the Tenants advised that they wished to
withdraw the Driveway Ice Allegation. Accordingly,
by interim order dated December 6, 2021, the Tenants’ Driveway Ice Allegation
was withdrawn.
 
4.   
The Tenants thus make the following
allegations:
 
1   the Dryer was not working
for over 1 month;
2   the alarm system
is not interconnected;
3   there are no fire extinguishers in the house;
4   there is no heat in the rental unit;
5   the sewer backup
causes a foul odor in the rental
unit;
6   the kitchen and toilet sinks are
clogged;
7   there is black mould in the house;
8   there are centipedes in the basement; and,
9   the circuit breakers
keep tripping.
 
Dryer
 
1.    The Tenants allege that the dryer was non-functional
for 1 month. The Tenant Phat Lieu
(“PL”) states the dryer stopped working at the beginning of February and was
not repaired until February 29, 2020.  The
Landlord submitted he acted reasonably upon being advised of this issue,
stating at the request of the Tenants he was delayed in performing repairs
since he had just returned from China and was requested to wait 14 days prior
to entering the rental unit.
 
2.    While it is reasonable for the Landlord to take the
precautions he took, the Landlord could have arranged for another individual or
some other alternative course of action to ensure the timely repair of the
dryer. I find the lack of a
functioning dryer during the month of February caused a minimal disruption to
the Tenants’ ability to normally reside in the unit. I find an abatement of $40, being
approximately 5% of rent for the month of February to be appropriate in the
circumstances.
 
Alarm system & Fire extinguishers
 
3.    The Tenants allege the smoke alarm system is not
interconnected in the house and that the Landlord failed to install a fire
extinguisher in the house. The
Landlord admits the fire alarm is not “interconnected”, but states there is a functional
battery-operated fire alarm system at each level, which PL admitted on
cross-examination. The Tenant did not
allege that the current set-up was a breach of the Ontario Fire Code, or any
other municipal standard or regulation. Based
upon the evidence presented, I do not find that the Tenant has proven on a
balance of probabilities that the Landlord breached his obligations under
s.20(1) as a result of this issue.
 
4.   
The Landlord tendered evidence
that a fire extinguisher was installed at the residential complex shortly after
being required to do so, following a municipal inspection. The Tenant admitted that he did not raise the issue of the fire extinguisher with the Landlord




 
prior to the
municipal inspection. While it is
regrettable that the fire extinguisher was not installed sooner, the Tenants
did not show there was any disruption to their ability to normally reside in
the unit resulting from this infraction, and thus, I am not awarding any
abatement as a result of this allegation.
 
Heat
 
5.    The Tenants allege there was a “lack of heat” in the
basement, causing the Tenants to cough and get sick. While PL admits there was heat in the upstairs unit, he states
there was no heat coming out of the ductwork to his unit. For this reason, he had to wear a jacket.
He alleges he advised the Landlord of this concern prior to the winter of 2019
and he was forced to purchase 3 personal heaters which, ultimately, resolved
this issue.
 
6.    The Landlord denies there was a lack of heat in the
basement unit and tendered into evidence pictures showing heat vents in various
rooms within the Tenant’s unit, as well as a fireplace.  The onus in this type of application rests with the Tenants.
There were no temperature readings produced, evidence as to the frequency of
the lack of heat, or any other independent, corroborating evidence to prove the
actual temperature in the Tenants’ unit. I
do not find that the Tenants have proven on a balance of probabilities that the
Landlord failed to provide adequate heat to the rental unit.
 
Sewer-backup
 
7.   
The Tenants allege the sewer
backed up in October 2019 and created a foul odor in the house. The Tenants
also produced pictures showing black markings on the tile besides
the drain, suggesting the black markings were feces requiring clean up.
 
8.    The Landlord testified that the backup was caused by
heavy rain and the Landlord authorized the Tenant to call a plumbing service
and reimbursed the Tenant for the expenses incurred. Further, the Landlord advised that a subsequent back-up two days
later was immediately resolved after the Landlord arranged for a plumber.                                                                                                                                  PL acknowledged that the Landlord arranged
for a plumber to unplug the drain, but stated the plumber indicated the pipe
was clogged “25 feet away” and needed to be changed, which was not done.
 
9.   
In Onyskiw v. CJM Property
Management (“Oniskew”), the Ontario Court of Appeal 2016 ONCA 477 (CanLII) provided a guiding framework
for the analysis of alleged
breaches of section 20 of the Act. The Court of Appeal urged a “contextual approach” to the analysis of
maintenance and repair issues. The
court also rejected that the mere occurrence of a problem constitutes an
automatic breach of the Act. While it is unfortunate
that the sewer backup occurred, it does not appear as though the Landlord could have reasonably anticipated
the backup, and I find the Landlord acted quickly upon becoming aware of this
issue. This portion of the Tenants’
application is dismissed.
 
Sinks clogged
 
10. The Tenants allege the kitchen/bathroom sinks would
get clogged from time to time, making it difficult to use and wash dishes.
PL testified that this issue was brought
to the




 
Landlord’s attention
orally, as it only happened “once in a while”.
The Tenants did not provide particulars as to the dates that the
clogging occurred, whether the clogging occurred at anytime after the plumber
came, and/or how much it impacted their living situation.  I find the Tenants have not proven on a
balance of probabilities that the Landlord breached his obligations under
s.20(1) in respect of this allegation.
 
Black Mould
 
11. The Tenants allege that there was black mould in the
laundry room, caused by water leaking around the windows in the upstairs unit.  PL states he verbally notified the
Landlord “a few weeks” after move-in, but the Landlord did not address
this concern. While the Tenant sent
one picture in support of the allegation, it could not be ascertained from the
picture that (i) there was black mould, and if present, (ii) how much was
present. The Tenant indicated the mould makes it difficult to breathe after he
uses the laundry room. The Tenant,
however, did not produce any medical documentation or any other diagnosis confirming or linking any health symptoms
to the alleged presence of mould.
On cross-examination, PL admitted he has not seen a doctor in respect of this
issue.
 
12. The Landlord submitted that there was an inspection of
the rental unit prior to renting the unit and that no mould was found. He
states the Tenants did not advise the Landlord of this issue. The burden
of proof in this application rests upon the Tenants, and I find the Tenants
have not proven on a balance of probabilities that there was black mould. This allegation is dismissed.
 
Centipedes
 
13. The Tenants allege that centipedes were discovered a
few days after moving into the rental
unit, and produced a picture of one centipede.
While PL feared the centipedes would bite, he conceded on
cross-examination that he has never been bit.
PL also testified that the
Landlord was verbally notified about this issue 3 weeks after move-in, but
nothing was done. The Landlord denies
both the presence of centipedes and being advised by the Tenants of their
alleged existence.
 
14. The burden of proof in this application rests upon the
Tenants. Given the lack of
communication between the Tenant and the Landlord on this issue and the lack of
evidence produced that there was a pest problem
in the rental unit, I am not convinced that the landlord breached his
obligations under s.20(1) as a result of this particular allegation This
portion of the Tenant’s claim is dismissed.
 
Circuit breakers
 
7       
The Tenants alleged that circuit breakers
keep tripping, causing lights to go offer every 2-3 weeks. When this occurred,
the breaker had to be reset, and the lights would go back on. The Tenant
indicated he told the Landlord shortly after move-in. The Landlord submits he
acted reasonably since the home was powered as per industry standard, and that
the Tenants usage caused the circuit breakers to trip.




 
8       
The Tenant’s evidence as to the
duration and impact of the circuit breaker was vague and it is unclear upon
what dates this occurred, or how it could have been prevented. Based upon the limited evidence before me,
I do not find that the Tenants have proven on a balance of probabilities that
the Landlord breached his obligations under s.20(1).
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord shall pay to the Tenants a rent abatement of $40.00.
 
2.    
The Landlord shall pay the Tenants
the full amount owing by February 28, 2022.
 
3.    
If the Landlord does not pay the Tenants
the full amount
owing by February
28, 2022 the Landlord will owe interest. This will
be simple interest calculated from March 1, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
outstanding balance.
 
4.    
The Tenant has the right, at any time,
to collect the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
February 16, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Peter Nicholson
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East,
Suite 700, 7th Floor
Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

