Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-21
File number:	
TNT-17905-19

Citation:	TNT-17905-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 122682 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp4l>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under
Sections 31 & 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-17905-19 &
TNL-17531-19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PL (the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that VO (the 'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced,
threatened or interfered with the Tenant and substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential complex by the Tenant or
by a member of the Tenant's household.
 
 
The Landlord applied for an order
to terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenant because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or someone
the Tenant permitted
in the residential complex has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment or lawful right,
privilege or interest of the
Landlord in a residential complex that has three or fewer residential units.
The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the
unit after the termination date.
 
These applications were heard in Toronto
on September 5, 2019, February
2, 2020, May 20,
2021, and February 1, 2022.
 
The Tenant and the Landlord attended
the hearings.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    The rental unit is a basement apartment in a semi-detached house. The Landlord
lives on the upper floor. The Tenant moved into the rental unit in
2014. The monthly rent was
$850.00 when the Tenant
moved out.
 
2.    The Tenant vacated
the rental unit on June 6, 2020.
 
3.    The Landlord applied
for an order to evict the Tenant because the Tenant harassed
and threatened her.




 
 
4.   
Since the Tenant no longer lives in the rental unit,
the Landlord’s application is moot, and it
will be dismissed.
 
Background:
 
5.   
The parties had an amicable relationship until the end of 2018. Both parties
had differing accounts of why
the relationship broke down at that time. The
deterioration of the relationship led to the events giving rise to both
applications.
 
6.    It is before me to consider the Tenant’s T2 application,
which specifically alleges substantial interference with reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit and the residential complex, harassment and interference,
all as a result of the Landlord’s alleged noise disturbances, and her pattern
of harassment to induce the Tenant to leave, the latter which included repeated attempts to evict the Tenant by making false accusations and calling the police, and refusing to carry out her
Landlord obligations of lawn and snow maintenance.
 
7.    In order to understand the Tenant’s application, it
was essential to have a basic understanding of the context in which both applications arose.
The testimonies’ of the
parties were contradictory, and each accused the other of harassment.
 
8.   
I came to the following understanding,
on the basis of the testimony and the very few official documents available. The parties had a very amicable
relationship from 2014 to 2018, to the point where the Landlord left the door
connecting her unit to the Tenant’s unlocked so that he could enter her unit to
adjust the thermostat when he felt it was required. The evidence also indicated, on a balance
of probabilities, that when the parties
were getting along, the Tenant carried out daily chores for the Landlord,
including snow shovelling and lawn care.
 
9.    In September 2018, the Landlord
made attempts to repair something
in the Tenant’s rental unit
by sending her handyman. There ensued
arguments over access to the unit for the Landlord’s handyman. The Tenant believes the Landlord
retaliated by putting the key to his unit in a publicly accessible mailbox. It was around this time that the parties
stopped communicating, and the Landlord locked the door between their units.
 
10. It was undisputed that the relationship between the parties
changed after September
2018, but each party declared that they were ignorant as to why.
 
11. Due to the change in relationship, the Tenant stopped
being helpful with snow and lawn care. The
relationship deteriorated further, and the Tenant alleges that the Landlord
started a campaign of making
excessive noise at all hours of the day when he was trying to sleep. The Tenant does shift work, and he is particularly sensitive to
day time noise. The Landlord vehemently denied that there
was ever a shift in her daily
activities or noise pattern.




 
12. The bad feelings escalated, and there was a major altercation in March, 2019. Each party blamed the other for causing
the altercation. The police were
called. Each party pointed to the
police notes from their visit as proof that the other had been aggressive, threatening or yelling. The police notes were, in fact, a
summarization of each party’s version of events. The police notes also state that the parties were told their dispute was a matter
for the Landlord and Tenant Board.
 
13. The Tenant alleges
that the campaign
of excessive noise got worse.
The Landlord said that
the Tenant caused
noise. The Tenant
played audio recordings of stomping, dishes being clattered, and cupboards
being slammed.
 
14. The relationship between the parties deteriorated
further, when on May 22, 2019, the Tenant told the Landlord to take care of the lawn, and he threatened to call City By Law to
report the state of the lawn.
 
15. The main documentary evidence, undisputed by both parties, is
that the Landlord received a
“Grass and Weeds Advisory” from the City of Toronto on May 27, 2019, advising her that she was
required to cut and maintain the yard areas so that grass and weeds are not in
excess of 20 centimetres. There was a “Waste Advisory”
sent by the City of Toronto to the
Landlord on May 27, 2019, advising the Landlord that she was required to clean
and clear the property of all refuse garbage.
Finally, there was a “Noise Advisory” sent to the Landlord by the City of Toronto on May 28, 2019, advising her that the City had received a
complaint alleging that there is noise emanating from the property which is
causing a disturbance. It is
undisputed that the Tenant advised the City of the lawn, waste and potential
noise violations.
 
16. I find that it is not coincidental that the Landlord
served the Tenant with an N7 notice of termination alleging behaviour causing a
substantial interference to the Landlord’s reasonable enjoyment of a residential complex
with 3 or fewer units on
May 29, 2019. The Landlord
alleged harassing and threatening behaviour on the part of the Tenant, and she
alleged that he slammed things, screamed, and stomped around.
 
17. The Tenant filed his T2 application on July 9, 2019, alleging
that the Landlord
harassed him, made noise, and repeatedly attempted to evict him.
 
18. Matters between the parties went downhill from there,
with each accusing the other of harassment. There were four hearing
dates for these
matters, and at each one the parties argued and accused each other. The Landlord consistently gave evidence as
though the application was hers, and the grievances were hers rather than the
Tenant’s.
 
19.
The Tenant said
that the excessive noise continued sometimes every day, sometimes every other day, and sometimes only once per week. On average, it occurred about
twice per week.




 
20. The Tenant said that the Landlord further exacerbated
matters by delaying giving him a landlord reference letter
which he required
in order to vacate the rental unit as desired
by the Landlord.
 
21. The Tenant moved out on June 6, 2020, and the tenancy
terminated on that date.
 
22.
The Tenant
requests a rent abatement of 15% for the months
of February 2019 to the time
he left in June 2020, for the excessive noise, harassment, and constant
attempts to evict him.
 
Reasons and Analysis:
 
23. Pursuant to subsection 29(1) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act”), a Tenant may apply to the Board for an
order determining that a Landlord interfered with their reasonable enjoyment of
the rental unit or the residential complex, and/or an order determining that the Landlord
harassed, obstructed, coerced,
threatened of interfered with the tenant.
 
24. The Board’s Interpretation Guideline 6 states that a landlord’s substantial
interference with the tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of a rental unit can
include a wide range of conduct, including excessive noise, communicating in an
unreasonable or abusive manner. It
states, further, “Sometimes a tenant objects to a notice of termination or
other document served by the landlord because they believe the contents are
untrue. However, if the landlord was
acting in good faith, and did not serve the notice for an improper purpose it
will not constitute substantial interference with the tenant’s reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit.”
 
25. The testimonial evidence in this matter was primarily
comprised of reciprocal accusations. The Landlord served a notice of
termination first, and she filed an application, over a month before the Tenant
did. Therefore, at first glance, the
Tenant’s application could be viewed as retaliation for the Landlord’s. However, I find that given the context
cited above, and analysing the
consistency of each party’s testimony, I find the Tenant’s testimony more
credible.
 
26. In essence, the relationship broke down at the end of
2018, and the Tenant refused to continue to help out the Landlord with household
chores, lawn and snow maintenance. The Landlord retaliated by creating
excessive noise in the rental unit, when she was well aware of his work
schedule and his sensitivity to excessive noise. This disharmony led to a conflagration in March, 2019, wherein
the Landlord called in the police hoping to have the police remove the Tenant. During the hearings, the Landlord kept
repeating that she had “evicted the Tenant”, when she had never, in fact, done
so. She certainly had tried to evict the Tenant. The Tenant became enraged by the Landlord’s accusations against him, so, by late May, 2019, he made a
point of calling the Landlord out for failing to do lawn maintenance, garbage
maintenance, and creating noise. He
did not wait very long for the Landlord to comply before he called City By Law,
and City By Law then sent three notices to the Landlord within the space of two
days.




 
 
27. That is when the Landlord, on May 29, 2019, retaliated
against the Tenant by serving him with an N7 notice of termination, and filing
an application with the Board. I find
that the Landlord was, therefore, not acting in good faith, and she served the notice for an improper purpose, constituting substantial
interference as outlined in the Board’s Interpretation Guideline 6.
 
28. The Tenant just became further
upset by this turn of events, and he filed his T2 application soon
after.
 
29. The Tenant said repeatedly that the Landlord attempted
to evict him for standing on his rights. Based
on my findings above, I agree. It
was difficult to determine the exact intensity
and frequency of excessive noise emanating from the Landlord,
but I am satisfied that
there was enough excessive noise commencing in February 2019, as alleged by the
Tenant, to cause him such frustration and exasperation that it led to the
conflagration with the Landlord on March 9, 2019.
 
30. However, the argument did not inspire the Landlord to
stop her pattern of noise and harassment. Instead, she filed an L2 application seeking to evict the Tenant,
and she continued making
noise.
 
31. Therefore, I find that the Landlord substantially
interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit and the residential complex
by making intermittent excessive noise in the rental unit between February 2019 and the
beginning of June, 2020.
 
32. The Landlord’s pattern of harassment with noise, and
her refusal to carry out snow and lawn maintenance continued
to such an extent, that the Tenant was led to complain
to City By Law by the end of
May, 2019. Rather than comply with
her obligations, the Landlord filed an N7 notice of termination on the Tenant.
 
33. As it happens, I do not have to make any
determinations on the Landlord’s application. However, pursuant to subsection
83(3)(c), the Board shall refuse to grant a Landlord application where
satisfied that the reason or the application being brought is that the tenant
has attempted to secure or enforce his or her legal rights. I find that the Landlord brought her
application on May 29, 2019, because the Tenant attempted to secure or enforce
his legal rights with regard to noise and lawn maintenance. The Landlord’s retaliatory application for the Tenant’s
assertion of his rights was ongoing until the Tenant moved out in June, 2020. That is also why the Tenant was moved to
file his own T2 application.
 
34. There, I find that the Tenant was justified in
bringing his own application, and he has proved an on ongoing
pattern of harassment, obstruction or interference with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of his
rental unit and the residential complex.




 
Remedy:
 
35. The Tenant is seeking a 15% rent abatement from February 2019 to the beginning of June
2020, a period of 16 months. He
described a feeling of insecurity because of the false accusations, and anxiety
and disturbance because of the noise and the attempts to evict him.
 
36. I find that a 10% rent abatement
for 16 months is an appropriate
remedy for the impact described
by the Tenant, for a total of (10% X $850.00 X 16)=$1,360.00.
 
It is ordered
that:
 
1.    
The Tenant moved out on June 6, 2020, and the tenancy terminated at that time.
 
2.    
The Landlord’s L2 application is dismissed.
 
3.    
The Landlord shall pay to
the Tenant $1,360.00.
 
4.    
The Landlord shall also pay
to the Tenant $50.00 for the cost of filing
the application.
 
5.    
The Landlord shall pay the Tenant
the full amount owing by March 4, 2022.
 
6.    
If the Landlord does not pay the
Tenant the full amount owing by March 4, 2022, the Tenant will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from March 5, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
 
 
 

February 21, 2022 Date Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard Avenue East, Suite 700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

