Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
TNT-25872-20

Citation:	Liberski v Amendola, 2022 CanLII 56716 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq1c3>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-25872-20
 



In the matter
of:


BASEMENT, 16 EVANSTON DRIVE DRIVE NORTH
  YORK ON M3H5P1


 




Between:


Florence Liberski


Tenant




 


and


 




 


Anna Amendola and Tony Amendola


Landlord



 
 
Florence
Liberski (the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that Anna Amendola and
Tony Amendola (the 'Landlords') harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or
interfered with the Tenant, entered the rental unit illegally and substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or by a member of the Tenant's
household.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on June 16, 2020 and November 25,
2021.
 
The Tenant
and the Landlords and the Landlords’ Legal Representative M. Sturino attended
the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Tenant
has resided in the rental
since August 1, 2019 and paid a monthly rent in the amount of $1,000.00.
 
2.    
On April 6, 2020 the Tenant filed a T2 Application About Tenant Rights with the Board
which alleged that the Landlord:
a.   
Entered her rental unit illegally;
b.   
Substantially interfered with her reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
complex;
c.   
Harassed, coerced,
obstructed, threatened or interfered with
her;
d.   
Maintenance and repair issues.
 
3.    
The Tenant’s
T2 Application seeks the following remedies:
a.     
A $3,000.00 abatement of rent;
and
b.     
The ability
to “elect to receive” an award for an undisclosed rent differential and moving and storage expenses in the
future.
 
Legislation and Analysis




 
4.    
The Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, (the ‘Act’) states the following:
s. 22 A
landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit and
before the day on which an order evicting the tenant is executed substantially
interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential complex
in which it is located
for all usual
purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.
s. 23 A landlord
shall not harass,
obstruct, coerce, threaten
or interfere with a
tenant.
s. 27 A landlord
may enter a rental unit in accordance with written notice given to the tenant at least 24
hours before the time of entry…
 
Illegal Entry
 
5.    
The Tenant’s T2
application alleges that on an undisclosed date in the Fall of 2019 the
Landlords’ son, when conducting a repair, entered
her unit without
knocking on the door
or providing a notice of entry. The application also alleges that the
Landlords’ son on March 1, 2020 entered the residential complex shared entry
door and landing without notice, in order to collect her rent.
 
6.    
It was undisputed that the residential complex is a detached home with
2 units, an upper unit and a
basement unit, and the Tenant resides in the basement unit. It was also
uncontested that there is an external door that when opened, leads to
a landing and one can either
go up or down the stairs, the Tenant’s rental unit is at the bottom of the
staircase. At the bottom of the staircase is a locked door which gives entry to
the Tenant’s rental unit.
 
7.    
The Tenant testified that in fall 2019 the Landlords’ son, Daniel Amendola
(‘DA’) attended the unit and
was permitted entry regarding a repair request to fix the toilet. The Tenant
states that DA left the unit to obtain a repair part and subsequently returned
to the unit to complete the repairs and upon returning, walked into the unit
without knocking or requesting entry first.
 
8.    
The Tenant testified
that on March 1, 2020 DA entered the exterior entry door of the residential
complex and stood on the landing between the two rental units without
permission or notice of entry.
The Tenant states
that this was an illegal
entry into her rental unit.
 
9.    
The Landlord’s son DA attended
the hearing and gave evidence
regarding the allegations made against him. DA testified
that he recalled the repair to the toilet in the fall and he states that he did
not walk into the Tenant’s unit but got the required parts to conduct the
repair; he left and returned and knocked on the exterior door, he heard a
response and stepped into the shared landing of the residential complex, he
stayed at the top of the stairs and the Tenant opened her own door and 2 or 3
dogs ran past him and he was permitted into the unit to perform the repairs. He
testified that he did not enter the unit until he heard a voice and stepped in
and was given permission to enter and he did not walk into the Tenant’s unit
but was given permission to complete the repairs.




 
10.  DA further testified that he did not
specifically recall the date of March 1, 2020 but did recall picking up the
rent one time from the Tenant’s unit. He testified that when he collected the rent from the Tenant,
he did not enter her rental unit but rather
knocked on the exterior door
and then stood in the common entry way/landing of the residential complex. He
testified that he has never walked into the Tenant’s rental unit through her
unit door.
 
11.  Without any other corroborating evidence, I
only had the conflicting testimony of the parties before me. On any application
before the Board, the person who alleges any particular incident or event
occurred has the burden of leading sufficient evidence to establish that it is more likely
than not that their
version of events is true. In this case that burden falls on the Tenant.
 
12.  I find that there was insufficient evidence
before me to determine on a balance of probabilities that the Landlords’ son illegally entered
into the Tenant’s
rental unit in the fall of 2019 or on March 1, 2020.
Accordingly, the Tenant’s claims for illegal entry will be denied.
 
Substantial Interference
 
Service of Notice of Termination
 
13.  The Tenant alleges that the Landlords
interfered with her reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit by serving
her with a Notice of Eviction on March 5, 2020 “without
attempting to have any communication with her” prior to service.
She alleges that the allegations in the Notice were false and disputed the claims made against
her by the Landlords regarding running a kennel and in relation to her puppies
and clogging the toilet.
 
14.  I find that the Act does not require a
landlord to have “prior” discussions with a tenant before a landlord enforces
their legal rights. I do not find that service of a Notice of Termination
without prior consultation constitutes substantial interference with the
Tenant’s rights on its own. The Landlords testified that the Notice was served
in good faith and that their concerns with the clogging of the toilet were
supported by their plumber. On the evidence presented, I did not find that the Notice was served in bad faith
or constituted substantial interference.
 
Landlord’s Failure to Address Noise
in the Upper Unit
 
15.  The Tenant alleges
that there was noise in the upper unit on October 30, 2019 caused by
singing at a 1 year old’s birthday party, keeping her up until 5:00 am with
singing and dancing. She states that due to the noise she turned off the power
to the residential complex which resulted in the neighbours coming to her door
and yelling at her. She further states that there was noise on March 24, 2020
past midnight. The Tenant’s application did not contain any other dates of
allegations of noise.
 
16.  The tenant in the upper rental unit Adriana
Ayyas (‘AA’) attended at the hearing and testified. AA testified that on
October 30, 2019 she was on a video conference call with her children, grandchildren, and in-laws
who were at her house.
She states there was no




 
party, her
family members were talking and the children were playing until about 10:30 pm, while she was on the video conference. She testified her daughter was pregnant and having the baby by c-section
the next day and at midnight she and husband and her daughter, who was present
in the house, did sing happy birthday to the new baby that was coming. She
testified the Police were called and attended and came into the house and left
as they found there was no party and no unreasonable noise in the unit. AA
testified that she personally sees 5-6 people coming to the Tenant’s unit 2 or more
times per week for yoga classes
and they knock on her door by mistake and she
has to redirect them to the Tenant’s unit. She testified that the
Tenant has had numerous dogs and that she too can hear noise from the Tenant’s
unit from her daily living and her guests and dogs.
 
17.  The Tenant and her witness
Gregory Antidenikian (‘GA’) testified as to general
noise from the upper unit. GA
testified that he had been present in the rental unit and that noise could be
heard “both ways because of insulation”. He testified that the tenants needed
to work together as you can hear the TVs, footsteps or noise but “they were not
doing it against her,” they are “just sounds of regular life.” The Tenant’s
witness Zareha Izol also gave evidence regarding noise in the Tenant’s unit and
stated that when caring for the Tenant’s puppies in the unit, she could hear
walking, the TV, and voices.
 
18.  The Landlord testified that the tenants
in the 2 units do not have a good relationship and that he spoke to both tenants about
getting along and being mindful of the noise in the house. The Landlord
testified that he did not believe that there was excessive noise but the sounds
of daily activities between the units.
 
19.  In the present case the dispute arises as
to whether the noise is that of the activities of daily living, at a reasonable
level, or something more which rises to the level of substantial interference.
I accept the Tenant’s evidence that she can hear walking and noise can be heard
from the unit above. However, the Landlord, the other tenant in the upper unit, and even the Tenant’s
witness GA testified
that they believed
the noises were regular activities. Having carefully
considered all of the evidence regarding the noise complaints, I find on a
balance of probabilities, that this noise is not beyond the ordinary noise
travelling between floors which is reasonable to expect within a divided house.
I further find that the Landlord took reasonable steps to address the noise
problems with the other tenants.
 
20.  I find that there was insufficient evidence
before me to show that the noises complained
of were anything more than the activities of daily living;
the noise does not rise to the level
of substantial and was not from unreasonable conduct. I find that there was
singing on the night of October
30, 2020, however it was a one-time occurrence and does not rise to the level of substantial.
People living in multi-unit residential complexes must accept that they will
hear a certain amount of noise. The mere fact that the Tenant is hearing others
does not establish substantial interference with reasonable enjoyment.
 
21.  I find that the Landlord has not
substantially interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the
unit or residential complex by failing to address noise
complaints. The Tenant’s claim
will be denied.




 
Moving of the Garbage Bins
 
22.  The Tenant also alleges that on April 4,
2020 the upstairs tenants moved the outside garbage bins leaving them close
to her car and out of their
regular spot. She alleges that the Landlord would not help her with
her complaint regarding the moving of the garbage bins. The Tenant testified
that this was done intentionally by the upper unit tenants to harass her and
the Landlord failed to take appropriate action. The Landlord testified that
there are on-going personal disputes between the tenants and he has attempted
on several occasions to resolve them or speak to the upper tenants. The
Landlord testified that he spoke to the upper unit tenants about
the disputes with the Tenant. There are no other dates alleged in the
application.
 
23.  Having considered the evidence of both parties,
I find that there was one allegation with a specific date
of moving the garbage bins and I accept the Landlord’s evidence that he spoke
to the upper tenants about not moving them. This was confirmed by the testimony
of AA, the upper unit tenant, who denied moving the bins but confirmed the
Landlord had spoken to her about the incident. As a result, I find that the
Landlord took reasonable action, in a timely manner to deal with the complaint
from the Tenant.
 
24.  I find that the Tenant did not have proof
that the upper tenants moved the outside garbage bins and had only one complaint of a date that this occurred in her application. I find the Landlord took reasonable action in response to the
complaint.
 
25.  As the Landlord took reasonable action, I
do not find that there was substantial interference with the Tenant’s
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. The claim will be
denied.
 
Rent Receipts
 
26.  The Tenant also alleged that on March 6, 2020 she requested
rent receipts and again in April. The Tenant testified that she
requested her rent receipts and the
Landlord did not initially respond but did provide one receipt for April 2020.
 
27. 
The Landlord
testified that he responded and has provided
the Tenant with all of her rent receipts when they were asked
for. He testified that he did not provide receipts until they were
requested and to the best of his knowledge all of the receipts were provided by the end of April 2020.
 
28.  On the evidence
before the Board,
I find on a balance
of probabilities that the Landlord provided the rent receipts to the
Tenant once they were requested.
 
Harassment: Arguing and Raising Voices
 
29.  I find that these allegations in the Tenant’s
application regarding general
harassment and arguing and
raising voices are vague and lack dates and details of the alleged occurrences.
The Ontario Divisional Court has stated in Ball v. Metro
Capital Property
[2002] O.J. No. 5931, that particulars
and detailed descriptions of the alleged conduct must be presented in
the originating documents.




 
30.  The Court held in
Ball that, “Particulars should include, dates and times of the alleged
offensive conduct together with a detailed description of the alleged
conduct...”
While Ball involved
a notice of termination served on a tenant, I find that the general principles requiring the need for particular and details apply equally to tenant applications. In Ball, the Court
stated that the responding party must be able “to know the specific allegations
made so that she/he can be in a position to know the case that must be met; to
decide whether to dispute the allegations made before the Tribunal; and to
consider whether to stop the conduct or activity or correct the omission…”
31.  As stated above, I find that
the application lacks sufficient particulars as to the dates and times or even the occurrences of
harassment. These claims will be dismissed.
Maintenance and Repair
issues
32.  The Tenant’s application references
maintenance and repair issues including a faucet, lightbulbs, painting
the unit, holes
in the fencing, etc. These issues fall under section
20 of the Act and not under section 22.
 
33.  Substantial interference with reasonable
enjoyment is very broad and general claim and could potentially encompass any
number of issues that could arise during a tenancy. However, when an issue
raised in an application falls under a more specific and applicable section of
the Act, the case of Onyskiw v. CJM Property Management Ltd., 2016 ONCA 477 confirms
that the Board
must interpret the general claim in harmony
with the more specific
provision. Therefore, in my view, it is not appropriate to permit that type of claim to be filed under a T2 application so that a
tenant may circumvent section 20 of the Act.
 
34.  The Tenant’s maintenance and repair claims
in the application are dismissed as they should be
brought under section 20 of the Act.
 
35.  The Tenant’s application also raised an issue regarding a fire/emergency exit. However,
the Tenant led no evidence regarding this in the hearing.
36. 
Based on all of the above,
the Tenant’s application must be dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Tenant’s
application is dismissed.












January 5, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Nicola Mulima
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite 700, 7th Floor
Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

