Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
TNT-18601-19

Citation:	TNT-18601-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 52469 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpv20>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
135
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-18601-19
 
 
 
 
DV and JV (the
'Tenants') applied for an order determining that SMTK (the 'Landlord') has collected
or retained money illegally; and because the
Landlord substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by
a member of their household.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on November 23, 2021.
 
The Tenants
and the Tenants’ Legal Representative D. G and the Landlord attended
the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Tenants resided in
the rental unit from May 1, 2017 to November 11, 2019. The rental unit was in a semi-detached house containing two self contained
rental units, being an upper and lower unit. The
Tenants resided in the upper/main floor of the house and the Landlord resides
in the basement unit of the house. The Tenants paid a monthly rent in the amount
of $1,870.00 and resided in the rental unit together and with their mother and
father.
 
2.    
On August 8, 2019, the
Tenants filed an Application about Tenant’s Rights (T2 application), which alleged that the Landlord
substantially interfered with their reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex.
The Tenants filed an amended T2 application with the Board on March 25, 2020
which asserted the following:
 
Bad Faith
•        
On July 29, 2019 the Landlord
advised the Tenants
that he wished to terminate their
tenancy as he required their rental unit for his mother to move in. The
Landlord provided a letter purporting to be a 60 day notice of termination and
did not provide compensation or make an application to the Board to terminate
the tenancy.




 
•        
On the basis of the Landlord’s communication and letter,
the Tenants vacated
the rental unit on November 11, 2019.
•        
On the day the Tenants were moving out of the unit, the Landlord advised
the Tenants that his mother
was not moving in, but a friend would be moving into the rental unit.
•        
The Tenants
assert that the Landlord provided
a notice of termination and terminated
the tenancy in bad faith.
Utilities:
•        
The Tenants
state that their rent does not include
utilities and they are required
to pay gas, electricity, how
water rent and water and sewage charges for their rental unit. They state the
lease does not portion these utilities between the Landlord and the Tenants,
but that all terms in the lease refer to or relate to the rental unit.
•        
After residing
in the rental unit, the Tenants were asked to put these utilities in their
name as the Landlord would be away on vacation for weeks and upon return the
Landlord refused to put the utilities back in his name or pay any portion,
despite several requests to do so.
•        
In June 2018 the Landlord’s wife began residing
in the rental unit and as
a result the utility bills increased.
•        
The Tenants state the
requirement to pay the entire utility bill is an illegal charge under the Act
and a breach of the lease. In the alternative, they claim unjust enrichment by the Landlord
for the utility
costs. They state that payment of the
utilities for the entire residential complex substantially interferes with
their reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex.
 
3.    
The Tenants
request the following
remedies in their T2 application:
 
•        
$100.00 per month abatement of rent for one year prior to filing the application until the tenancy terminated, being $1,500.00;
•        
Moving expenses
in the amount of $263.03
incurred for a moving truck
rental;
•        
Reimbursement of out of pocket expenses
for 100% of the utility
bills paid from one year prior to the filing of the
application, being $6,429.44 or in an amount or apportionment as deemed
appropriate by the Board.
 
4.    
The Tenants
also filed a T1 Application for a rebate of money that the Landlord
owes (T1 application) with
the Board on August 8, 2019. T1
application, as amended filed on March 25, 2020, Tenant states the following
allegations:
 
•        
The Tenants
paid an illegal charge to the Landlord
for utilities from 2018 to 2019 in the amount of $6,010.90; and
•        
The Tenants paid all of
the utilities for the residential complex, including the Landlord’s unit, from August
2018 to the date they vacated
the rental unit in the amount of $6,429.44.




 
The Evidence of the Parties
 
5.    
The Tenant (‘JV’)
testified that the statements made in the application and its amendment are
true and accurate. He testified that in May 2019 the Landlord asked the Tenants
to vacate the rental unit for July as he needed the unit for his own use as his mother was moving in. JV stated that he asked for more time to
vacate the rental
unit and the Tenants moved out of the unit in November 2019. The Tenant testified that they were
not provided with a Notice of Termination by the Landlord or with one month’s
compensation pursuant to section 48 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006,
(the ‘Act’). JV testified that the Landlord terminated their tenancy in bad
faith and as a result they incurred costs and the move substantially interfered
with their enjoyment of the unit as they ultimately had to move.
 
6.    
The Tenant testified that as
a result of having to move out of the rental unit he incurred the expense of $263.03 for the
rental of a moving truck. (Exhibit 3)
 
7.    
JV testified that the tenancy
agreement requires the Tenants to pay
for utilities, they are
not included in the monthly
rent. JV testified that the requirement for the utility
payments are for the rental unit as the
tenancy agreement relates to
their obligations for the rental
unit only. He testified that the Landlord asked them to put the utilities in
their name and then refused to pay for any portion of the utilities or to
return the bills to his own name. The Tenant enter into evidence utility bills
totalling $6,429.44. (Exhibit 2)
 
8.    
The Tenant (‘DV’)
testified that for over one year the Tenants have paid 100% of the utility
bills for the residential complex
and the Landlord refused to pay for any
portion of the bills. DV testified that payment was evidenced through
withdrawals and payments from her bank account. (Exhibit 4)
 
9.    
The Landlord
testified that the Tenants rent is below market value and it was intentionally priced that way because the Tenants were fully responsible for the utilities. The Landlord led no evidence
regarding negotiations or discussions with the Tenants prior to entering into
the lease, for the Tenants’ obligation or agreement to pay the utility costs
for the entire residential complex.
 
10.  The Landlord disputes
that he did not pay any of the utilities
and testified that he
paid the gas and water bill in the
amount of $399.68 for the period of September 10/2019 to November 14/2019.
(Exhibit receipt 5) Being the bill that was issued after the Tenants vacated
the rental unit.
 
11.  He testified that the Tenants agreed to pay
utilities in the lease and it is therefore their responsibility to do so. He
testified that he chose not to increase the Tenants’ rent at the anniversary
date and was absent from the unit for a few weeks during the term of the
tenancy and was also away from
the unit from May 28, 2017 to September 9, 2017 when he got married, and from January 24,
2018 to February 28, 2018.
 
12.  The Landlord agreed that he gave notice for
the Tenants to terminate the tenancy. He disputed that he advised it was for
his mother to move in and states that it was to have his wife move into the entire house with him. The Landlord testified
that he did not tell the




 
Tenants that a friend was moving
in, rather he told the Tenants that a friend
was staying in the house for
two months to work in the city and they could give him the keys when they
vacated the rental unit.
 
13.  The Landlord testified that he intended
to occupy the entire house after his friend’s
temporary stay and that he did so and occupied the entire house.
 
Legislation and Analysis
 
T2 Application
 
14.  The Tenants assert
that being responsible for the payment
of 100% of the utility
costs for the residential
complex interferes with their reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex
or their rental unit and that the Landlord interfered with their reasonable
enjoyment by providing a notice of termination in bad faith.
 
15.  The Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, S.O. 2006, c.17 (‘Act’), states
the following:
 
s. 22 a
landlord shall not substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit or the residential complex for all usual purposes
by a tenant or members
of his or her household.
Utility Charges
 
16.  The Tenants assert that their lease
requires them to be responsible for the rental unit only. The Landlord asserts
that the lease not apportioning amounts between the two units implies the Tenants would be
obligated to pay the utility charges for the residential complex.
 
17.  Having considered the evidence of both the
Landlord and the Tenants, I prefer the evidence of the Tenants that they
believed the lease terms applied only to their obligations in relation to the
rental unit, not the residential complex. I find that their evidence was
internally and externally consistent and more plausible. The Landlord’s
assertion that the Tenants should
have known there was a “break” on the rent rate which required them to pay the utilities
is not credible. The Landlord led no evidence on negotiations or conversations
which would have led the Tenants to make an informed decision on whether to
accept such a lease term.
 
18.  It is a general contract law interpretation
principle that an ambiguous term is to be interpreted as against the drafter. The principle is that the drafter is to
ensure that there is clarity and
where there is not the contract term will be interpreted in favour of the non-
drafter. In applying this principle to the terms of the lease agreement, I find
that the lease states the Tenants are responsible to pay the utilities for
their rental unit; had the Landlord wanted to ensure that the Tenants
were to pay the utilities for his entire
property he should have clearly stated that in the lease.
 
19.  On the evidence
before me I find that the Tenants
contracted with the Landlord to pay the utilities on behalf of the rental
unit. The uncontested evidence before the Board is that the




 
2 units in the house
are of a similar size and that there were 4 occupants in the Tenants’ rental unit and 1 and then 2
occupants in the Landlord’s unit. The Tenants sought reimbursement of 100% of
the utility payments or in the alternative a portion that the Board deemed
appropriate. The Tenants’ originally drafted application sought a reimbursement
of 33% of the costs. I find that it would to be unreasonable to divide the
utilities costs on the basis originally requested
at 66.6% to the Tenants
and 33.3% to the
Landlords, taking into account the occupancy and the similar size of the units.
 
20.  I am satisfied on a balance of probabilities that the Landlord requiring
the Tenants to pay 100% of the utility costs for the residential complex substantially
interfered with their reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. I find that the
Tenants are entitled to reimbursement of out of pocket
expenses for the utilities paid in the amount of $2,180.96.
 
Termination of Tenancy
in Bad Faith
 
21.  The Tenants assert that the Landlord served
them with a Notice of Termination to terminate their tenancy for his own use,
to have his mother move in, and after they vacated the rental unit, she did not move into the unit within
a reasonable period
of time.
 
22.  It was undisputed that the Landlord served
the Tenants with a letter purporting to be a notice of termination, requesting
that they vacate the rental unit in 60 days, and that on the basis of that letter and further communications the Tenants vacated
the rental unit on
November 2019.
 
23.  The parties’ evidence was contradictory as
the Tenants assert that the Landlord misled them to move out so his mother
could move in and the Landlord testified that he said his mother would
be visiting him and he intended to move into the unit with
his wife for a long term period.
 
24.  I on the basis of the evidence
before me, I find that regardless of whether it was for his
mother or himself, the Landlord failed to terminate the tenancy in accordance
with the requirements of the Act. The Landlord failed to provide proper notice
to the Tenants, failed to provide them one month’s rent compensation, and on
his own evidence, the Landlord did not take over occupation of the rental unit
upon the Tenants vacating the unit.
 
25.  I find that the Landlord’s failure to
comply with the Act’s requirements for termination a tenancy on the basis of a landlord’s own use of the unit, substantially interfered with the Tenants’
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit and caused them to vacate the unit. I
find that the Landlord did so in bad faith as he did not move into the unit
after it was vacated.
 
26.  The Tenants have requested an abatement of
rent in the amount of $100.00 per month for a 15 month period. An abatement of
rent is a contractual remedy based on the principle that rent is charged in
exchange for a bundle of goods and services and if a tenant is not receiving
those goods and services then the rent should be abated in a sum proportional to the difference between
what is being charged and what is
being received




 
27.  On the basis of the submissions received
from the Tenants,
I do not find that a case was
made out for an abatement of rent. The Tenants led no evidence regarding why
there should be a $100.00 per month abatement for 15 months; they failed
to meet the burden of proof
as to what of the Landlord’s actions over the course of 15 months entitled them
to an abatement of rent. This claim will be denied.
 
28.  I find that the Landlord’s bad faith termination of the tenancy
directly caused the Tenants
to vacate the rental unit and incur moving expenses and that they are entitled
to reimbursement for those expenses in the amount of $263.03.
 
29.  The Tenants have incurred the fee of $50.00 for filing the applications and are entitled
to reimbursement of that fee.
T1 Application
30.  As the Tenants’
claims have been addressed in the T2 application, I find that it is unnecessary to determine the T1 claim
as it is repetitive.
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenants
the sum of $2,493.99. This amount represents the out of pocket expenses of
the Tenants and the moving expenses incurred.
 
2.    
The Landlord
shall also pay the Tenants
$50.00 for the cost of filing the application.
 
3.    
The total amount the Landlords owes the Tenants
is $2,543.99.
 
4.    
If the Landlord does not pay the Tenants
the full amount
owing by January 16, 2022, the Landlord will owe interest.
This will be simple interest
calculated from January
7, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the outstanding balance.
 
5.    
The Tenants
have the right, at any time, to collect the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.












January 5, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Nicola Mulima
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite
700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

