Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-10
File number:	
TNT-31198-21-RV

Citation:	Boubacar v  McCleary, 2022 CanLII 56718 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq1c9>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
21.2 of the
Statutory Powers Procedure Act
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-31198-21-RV
 
 



In the matter
of:


8, 3029 FINCH AVENUE W NORTH YORK ON M9M0A2


 




Between:


Mohamed Boubacar


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Angela
McCleary


Landlord



 
 
Review Order
 
Mohamed Boubacar
(the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that Angela McCleary (the
'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the
Tenant, substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or by a member of the Tenant's household
and withheld or deliberately interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital
service, care service, or food that the Landlord is obligated to supply under
the tenancy agreement.
 
This application was resolved by order TNT-31198-21 issued on December 6, 2021.
On January 4, 2022, the Tenant requested a review of the order.
A preliminary review of the review request
was completed without a hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
On the basis of the
submissions made in the request, I am not satisfied that there is a serious error in the order or that a serious error occurred in the proceedings. I say this for
the following reasons.
 
2.    
Board Interpretation Guideline 8, Review of an Order, states, in part:
 
The LTB will only exercise
its discretion to grant a review when it is satisfied the order contains a serious error, a serious error occurred in the proceeding or the requestor was not
reasonably able to participate in the proceeding. Rule 26.8.
 
. . .
 
Serious error includes:




 
•        
An error of
jurisdiction. For example the order relies on the wrong section of the RTA or exceeds
the LTB's powers.
This issue need not have been raised in the original hearing;
 
•        
A procedural error which raises
issues of natural
justice;
 
•        
An unreasonable finding of fact on a material issue which would
potentially change the result of the order;
 
•        
New evidence
which was unavailable at the time of the hearing and which is potentially determinative of one or
more central issues in dispute;
 
•        
An error in law. The
LTB will not exercise its discretion to review an order interpreting the RTA unless the interpretation conflicts with a binding decision of the Courts or is clearly wrong
and unreasonable; and ,
 
•        
An unreasonable exercise of discretion which results in an order outside the usual range of remedies or results
and where there are no reasons explaining the result.
 
3.    
The difficulty with the Tenant’s
request for a review is that it does not identify a serious
error. Rather, the Tenant’s request for review is in substance a statement of
disagreement with respect to the findings of fact in the Board’s order.
 
4.    
The Tenant’s
request for review asserts, in part:
 
… I was forced
to move out due to the fact that the landlord refused to repair the vent of the laundry
machine’s dryer. The air blew inside my unit. The Landlord never denied it because she never
bothered conducting an inspection. Neither on her own or by a professional. Therefore the
issue in this matter is simple, there was a construction problem and the
landlord refused to fix it. I provided evidence (photos) of carbon monoxide
readings and it was not my responsibility to conduct a professional inspection.
 
Another way of looking
at the Tenant’s request is a restatement of some of the facts asserted on the Tenant’s T2
Application.
 
5.    
In my view, it cannot be said that the Member
erred by making
an unreasonable finding
of fact or ignored the
Tenant’s evidence or arguments. In
particular, the Member considered
the Tenants evidence that the dryer blows air into his apartment and fills the
unit with carbon monoxide and weighed this evidence against the Landlord’s
evidence to the contrary. After considering the evidence of both parties, the
Member found that the Tenant did not discharge his burden of proof.
 
6.    
In particular, the
Member found that the Tenant did not prove on the balance of probabilities that the dryer vent was blowing air into the Tenant’s unit. The Member also
found that the Tenant was unable to adequately explain the readings from the
carbon monoxide meter. Further,
the Member did not find that it was the Tenant’s responsibility




 
to conduct a
professional inspection. Rather, the Member writes that the Tenant is not
required to have such an inspection in order to establish
his claim but that such evidence would have been helpful given
the Tenant’s inconclusive evidence. In other words, the Member only referred to
the absence of a professional inspection as an example of the kind of evidence that could have assisted the Tenant in proving his claims on the balance of probabilities.
 
7.    
What happened here is
that the Member considered the evidence of both parties and found that the
Tenant’s evidence was insufficient to prove that it was more likely than not
that the Landlord breached the Act in the manner described by the Tenant. The
Tenant may disagree with these findings
of fact, but there is nothing in the record or in the review to suggest that these findings of
fact were unreasonable based on the evidence presented.
 
8.    
As stated
in the Board’s Interpretation Guideline 8:
 
A review
is not an appeal or an opportunity to change the way a case was
presented.
 
The purpose of
the review process is not to provide parties with an opportunity of presenting
a better or different case than they did at first instance. There
is nothing in the record
or in the request for review to support
a determination that the Member applied improper
principles in assessing the evidence introduced or that there was insufficient evidence
before the Board to support its conclusions. I would not interfere with the assessment
of the evidence by the Member of first instance, who had the opportunity of
observing the witnesses and of hearing the evidence in its totality.
 
9.    
Given all of the above, I am
not satisfied that there is a serious
error in the order
or that a serious error occurred during the
proceedings.
 
10.  The result is that the request for review must be
denied.
 
It
is ordered that:
 
1.    The request
to review order TNT-31198-21 issued on
December 6, 2021 is denied.
The order is confirmed and remains unchanged.
 
 




January 10, 2022 Date Issued
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite
700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5



 
 
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

