Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-07
File number:	
TNT-27775-20

Citation:	Moylan v Perusini, 2022 CanLII 122559 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp4t>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
57
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-27775-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


1, 100 RAJAH STREET TORONTO ON M6A2J3


 




Between:


Paul Moylan
Rechelle Tagulao-Moylan


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Daniela Perusini


Landlord



 
 
Paul Moylan and Rechelle
Tagulao-Moylan (the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that Daniela Perusini (the 'Landlord' or Ms Perusini): (a)
failed to meet her maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety, housing or
maintenance standards; (b) harassed, obstructed, coerced,
threatened or interfered with them and substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a
member of their household; and (c)
was required to give the Tenants the
right of first refusal to re-occupy the rental unit after the repairs or
renovations were completed, but failed to do so.
 
These applications were heard by
video conference on December 13, 2021. This
matter first came before me on November
12, 2021, but could not be heard that day because there was no time remaining the Block
 
The Tenants and the Landlord attended
the hearing on December
13, 2021. The Tenants were represented by Daniel English and
the Landlord was represented by Bita Di Lisi.
The Tenants and the Landlord testified.
 
 
Determinations: Introduction
1.    
These applications arose as a
result of a flood in the rental unit caused by a collapsed sewer that occurred
on or about May 31, 2020. The flood was sufficiently
serious that the Tenants were required to vacate the unit and put their
possessions into storage two weeks later in order for the Landlord to effect
repairs necessary to make the unit habitable.
The repairs took a substantial period of time to complete and the
Tenants were not able to move back into the until December 15, 2020.




 
2.    
On August 21, 2020, 2020, the
Tenants filed a T2, a T5 and a T6 application.
On all of the applications, the Tenants asked
for essentially the same remedies: (a) a $954.54 ‘rent
abatement’; (b) $16,651.92 based on a ‘rent differential’ of $1,387.66 per
month; (c) out- of-pocket expenses of $5,035.20 to store their possessions; and
(d) an order that the Landlord complete
the repairs to the rental unit in a timely manner. In the time that it took the applications to be scheduled, the situation evolved. At the
hearing, the Tenants were asking for: (a) the $954.54 ‘rent abatement’; and (b)
out-of-pocket expenses of
$17,218.83.
 
3.     Between mid-June and mid-December of 2020 the Tenants
lived in hotels. They first stayed
for two nights in a Sheraton in Mississauga, which provided only basic
accommodations. They then moved to a
two-bedroom suite at the Ports Hotel in Mississauga, which had a full kitchen
and other amenities. They stayed at
the Ports Hotel from July 1, 2020 until December
15, 2020. It was the cost of the stay at the Ports
Hotel that was the main issue on these applications.
 
4.     By the time the applications came before me for a
hearing on November 12, 2021, the repairs to the rental unit had been completed
and the Tenants were again living in the unit.
On that basis, Mr. English advised that the T5 and the T6 applications
were ‘no longer on the table’, which I took to mean that the focus of the argument
before me would be the remedies being sought on the
T2, and not that the T5 and the T6 were being withdrawn.
 
Witnesses
 
5.     I heard evidence from the Tenants
and the Landlord.
 
6.     The evidence of Mr Moylan and Ms Tagulao-Moylan was
clear, consistent and unwavering. Ms
Tagulao-Moylan, in particular, answered the questions put to her on both direct examination by Mr. English
and cross-examination by Ms Di Lisi directly and clearly. I have no hesitation in accepting her evidence. I also accept Mr. Moylan’s evidence, but
his evidence is less significant to the outcome of the applications.
 
7.    
Ms Perusini’s evidence was not
particularly clear or consistent. She at times appeared evasive and did not want
to provide direct answers to the question being put to her, but preferred to
provide long answers that she thought would support her position. At one point while being cross-examined by
Mr. English, Ms Perusini appeared to take direction from her husband, who,
unbeknownst to me until that point, was in the room with her while she was testifying. To the extent
that Ms Perusini’s evidence differs
from that of the
Tenants, I prefer the evidence of the Tenants.
 
The Applications
 
8.     The relevant sections
of the Act applicable to those applications provide:
 
16
When a landlord or a tenant becomes
liable to pay any amount
as a result of a breach
of a tenancy agreement, the person entitled to claim the amount has a duty to
take reasonable steps to minimize the person’s losses.




 
 
 
20 (1) A landlord is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in it,
in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with health,
safety, housing and maintenance standards.
 
22 A landlord
shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental
unit and before the day on which an order evicting
the tenant is executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or the residential complex
in which it is located
for all usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.
 
29 (1)
A tenant or former tenant of a rental
unit may apply to
the Board for any of the following orders:
 
1. An order determining that the landlord
has breached an obligation under subsection 20 (1) or section 161.
…
3. An order determining that the landlord, superintendent or agent of the landlord
has substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit
or residential complex for all usual purposes by the tenant or a member of his
or her household.
…
 
30 (1) If the Board determines in an application under paragraph 1 of subsection 29 (1) that a landlord
has breached an obligation under subsection 20 (1) or section 161, the Board
may do one or more of the following:
…
2. Order an abatement of rent.
…
5. Order the landlord to pay a specified sum to the tenant for,
…
ii.
other reasonable out-of-pocket expenses that the tenant has incurred or will
incur as a result of the landlord’s breach.
…
9.   Make any
other order that it considers appropriate.
 
31 (1) If the Board determines that a landlord,
a superintendent or an agent of a landlord
has done one or more of the activities set out in paragraphs 2 to 6 of
subsection 29 (1), the Board may,
…
(c) order an abatement of rent;
…
(f) make any other order that it considers appropriate.
 
9.     The case before me by the Tenants focussed on the
Landlord’s breach of subsection 20(1), although the issue of whether there
has been ‘substantial interference’ as a result
of the time it took to complete the repairs is, in my view, something that
flows from my findings with respect to the delay.




 
10.  There is no dispute that, as a result of the collapsed
sewer, the rental unit was not fit for habitation. There is also no dispute that the Landlord was required by
subsection 20(1) to make any repairs necessary to make the rental unit fit for
habitation. The primary issue is whether the Landlord fulfilled its obligation under subsection 20(1). I find that the Landlord did not. The secondary issue is whether there was a
substantial interference with the Tenats’ reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit. I find that there has been a
substantial interference. My latter
finding flows from the basis upon which I find
that the Landlord breached her obligations under subsection 20(1).
 
11.  The issue on an application pursuant to subsection
20(1) based on allegations relating to maintenance and repairs is whether the landlord
effected the repairs to the rental unit and
the residential complex fully, effectively and in a reasonable time. [See for example, Onyskiw v. CJM
Property Management Ltd., 2016 ONCA 477 (CanLII)]
 
12.  In this case, the Tenants concede that the rental unit
has been fully and effectively repaired by the Landlord. The only issue on these applications is whether the repairs
were completed by the Landlord in a reasonable time. I find that they were not.
 
Repairs Completed in Reasonable Time
 
13.  The best (and only) evidence available at the hearing
as to what would have been a reasonable time for the repairs
to the rental unit to be completed were the Landlord’s own estimates.
 
14.  Ms Tagulao-Moylan testified that the Landlord
told her that the required
repairs to the rental unit would take three to four
months. This is supported by the
documentary evidence.
 
15.  In an e-mail dated June 5, 2020, the Landlord advised
Ms Tagulao-Moylan that the repairs would take three months to complete. In an e-mail dated June 24, 2020, Ms
Perusini indicated that the repairs would take four months to complete. Ms Perusini’s evidence was that she was
aware of the scope
of the work to be undertaken to repair the rental unit. When she was cross-examined by
Mr. English, Ms Perusini
testified that she had spoken to ‘subject-matter experts’ in determining that
it would take four months to complete the repairs.
 
16. 
There is no dispute
that it ultimately took about six months
for the Landlord
to repair the rental unit.
 
17.  I reminded the Landlord a number of times
during the hearing that the key issue before
me was why it took so long to repair the rental unit. There was, however, very little offered by the Landlord to
explain why the repairs took so long.
 
18.  The Landlord called no witnesses. She produced a timeline that she prepared
of key events (Landlord Exhibit 1), but that document did not explain the delay
so much as provide evidence as to how long the repairs took and the Landlord’s involvement in the repairs.




 
19.  In her testimony at the hearing on December 13, 2021,
Ms Perusini did not provide a plausible explanation as to why the repairs took
so much longer than the estimates she provided
to the Tenants based on the advice
given to her by ‘subject-matter experts’ and knowing
the scope of the work to be undertaken. .
 
20.  Ms Perusini’s key assertion with respect to the reason
it took so long to repair the unit was that it took
two to three months to ‘dry out’ the inside of the unit and for the
‘anti-mold spray’ to ‘take effect’. There
was, however, no third-party evidence on this issue and there is no support
for this assertion in her timeline and I am not prepared
to accept that it
took three months for the rental unit to dry out for the ‘anti-mold spray’ to
‘take effect’. The evidence was that
while the flood was serious in the sense that it involved sewage, it was not a situation where there was a large amount of water pooling in the
unit. A report filed by the Landlord indicated that the water did not get above the laminate flooring
in the unit and Ms Perusini’s
testimony was consistent with this evidence.
To the extent that Ms Perusini
was asserting that it took two or
three months for the cement poured where the broken sewer was repaired to dry,
I simply do not accept the accuracy of that statement.
 
21.  Ms Perusini blamed COVID for the delay, but called no
witnesses and provided no documentary evidence to support the assertion that
she could not get trades to work because of
COVID or otherwise. In the
circumstances, her testimony that she tried to get trades to do the work but they would not attend
because of COVID is not sufficient. While I do take ‘judicial’ notice of the
existence of the COVID pandemic, I am not prepared to find that the pandemic
caused the repairs to be delayed in the absence of evidence to establish a
causal link between the pandemic and the delay(s).
 
22.  Ms Perusini ‘s testimony and the timeline she produced
indicated that, notwithstanding admitting be being ‘out of her depth’, she
attempted to manage the repairs to the unit herself rather than hiring a
general contractor. She also
testified that she was overwhelmed at her job and dealing with COVID. In the circumstances, the decision by Ms
Perusini to try to manage the repairs to the rental unit herself was, in my
view, not reasonable and I find that her decision
to do so contributed significantly to, or caused,
the delay in repairing the unit. That,
in my view, results in the delay being unreasonable and in a breach
of the Landlord’s obligations under subsection 20(1)
 
23.  Mr. Moylan and Ms Tagulao-Moylan both testified that they felt that the Landlord
did not want them to return
to the rental unit once it was repaired
and that this may have been a reason for the delay. There is evidence to support that
assertion.
 
24.  In the e-mail dated June 24, 2020, the Landlord
suggests that the tenants might want to consider looking for alternate
accommodations and asserted that the rental unit was ‘too small’ for the
Tenants’ family. Ms Perusini also
advised Ms Tagulao-Moylan that she
was ‘removing the small bedroom and making a large eatin (sic) kitchen’ and
suggested that the Tenants look for
‘another apartment for the near future that will suit your needs’.1 She asserted
that there was overcrowding and that this was ‘an evictable (sic)
item in the landlord and tenant
act (sic)’. On cross-examination, Ms Perusini denied suggesting that












1 These changes were ultimately not made to the rental
unit.




 
the Tenants not move back into the rental
unit once the repairs were completed, but this
assertion does not accord with her e-mail of June 24, 2020.
 
25.  I find that part of the
reason for the delay was that
the Landlord hoped that the Tenants would decide not to return to the
rental unit and that if the repairs were delayed the tenants would find another
place to live. That, in my view,
results in the delay being unreasonable and in a breach of the Landlord’s
obligations under subsection 20(1)
 
26.  The delay is completing the repairs to the rental
unit resulted, in my view, constitute both a breach of subsection 20(1) and a
substantial interference in the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit. They were not
able to occupy the rental unit for
six months and were forced to live in the Ports Hotel. Both of the Tenants testified as to the impact of living in the Ports Hotel
and being out of the rental unit. Based on that evidence, I am satisfied that there has been
substantial interference in the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit by the Tenants and the members of their
household.
 
Tenants not at Fault/Did
Not Contribute to Delay
 
1.     Ms Perusini
implied that the Tenants did not vacate the rental unit right away when they were told to do so. Ms Tagulao-Moylan
testified they vacated as soon as possible after they were told they had to do
so. I accept Ms Tagulao-Moylan’s
evidence.
 
2.     The Landlord also asserted that the unit was cluttered
and this delayed the commencement of the repairs.    I reviewed the pictures of
the rental unit filed by the Landlord and I see nothing in those pictures that
indicate any issues with ‘clutter’. It
is certainly a small unit, but it was, based on the pictures, very neat and
tidy considering that the Tenants had one special needs small child
and one more child
on the way, and were
dealing with the impact of the flood when the pictures were apparently taken.2 I also note that the uncontroverted
evidence is that the Tenants had moved out of the rental unit by mid-July of
2020, only two weeks after the issue was identified and that ‘delay’ can’t
explain why the repairs took over
six months—the Landlord estimated that would take four months after the
Tenants had vacated.
 
Tenants’ Remedies
 
27.  Having found that the Landlord
breached her obligation under subsection 20(1) and
has substantially interfered with the tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of
the rental unit, I must consider what remedies to provide to the Tenants.
 
28.  The Landlord asserts
that she compensated the Tenants by, in August
of 2020, returning their rent deposit. While this may have helped
the Tenants to pay some of the expenses
they were incurring, I do not consider this ‘compensation’. In returning their deposit all the
Landlord did, in my view, is given
the Tenants back their own money. I
note that the Landlord did not return any portion of the rent that the Tenants
paid for June of 2020,
 


2 In an e-mail dated June 9,
2020 included in the Landlord’s documents Ms Tagulao-Moylan tells the Landlord
that there are boxes in the hallway and the living room because they are
packing.




 
even though they had moved
out of the rental unit by the middle
of the month because of the
flood.
 
Out-of-Pocket
Expenses—$6,903.51
 
29.  The Tenants asked
for an order that the Landlord pay to the Tenants the out-of-pocket
expenses they incurred as a result of having
to move from and not being able to live in
the rental unit. That amount is
broken down as follows:
 



Hotel


$14,795.403




Storage


$ 2,517.60




Truck


$        78.34




U-Haul


$      126.17




Sub-total


$17,517.51




Tenant Insurance


($10,614.00)4




TOTAL


$    6,903.51



 
30. 
In advance
of the applications being heard,
the Tenants filed receipts to establish the out-
of-pocket expenses they incurred.
 
31.  The only questions put to Ms Tagulao-Moylan on cross-examination
with respect to the Tenants’
out-of-pocket expenses related to the Tenants’ accommodations at the Ports Hotel.
 
32.  Storage Charges. The storage charges are $419.60 per month from
June through to December of 2020. The
Tenants’ evidence, which I accept, was that they paid for storage on a monthly
basis and were, as a result, required to paid for the full month of December of
2020 notwithstanding that the moved back into the rental unit on December 15, 2020. The
Landlord did not argue that the storage charges were unnecessary or
unreasonable. I am ordering that the
Landlord pay to the Tenants
$2,517.60 in respect
of their out-of-pocket costs for storage.
 
33.  U-Haul and Truck. The Landlord did not dispute that the Tenants
paid $204.51 to rent a
U-Haul and truck to move their possessions into storage and then back to the
rental unit or that the amounts spent by the Tenants on the U-Haul and the
truck were unreasonable. I am ordering that the
Landlord’s pay to the Tenants $204.21 in respect of their out-of-pocket costs to move
their possessions from and back to the rental unit.
 
34. 
Hotel. The Tenants are claiming $14,795.40 as being the out-of-pocket cost to them of
staying in the Ports Hotel while the rental unit was being repaired.
 
 












3 In his submission, Mr. English asserted that the
Tenants incurred $131.23 for Sheraton and then $14,365.49 for July through to
December of 2021. The Tenants’ evidence indicates, however, that
they spent $15,107.60 to stay at the Ports Hotel through
to December 15, 2020. There is
an additional receipt for the period from December 15 to 19, 2020, but the
parties agreed that the Tenants moved back into the rental unit on December 15,
2020. The Tenants’ evidence was that
they used points to pay for the Sheraton. Mr.
English invited me to correct his math and I have done so because I do not
believe that the Tenants should be
prejudice by what appears to be a
mathematical error.
4 This was the maximum
of the coverage provided by the tenants’
policy.




 
35.  On their applications, the Tenant described the claim
for the hotel fees as a rent differential. It
was, however, apparent that the Tenants were seeking out-of-pocket expenses and
not per se a rent differential. The
Landlord was fully aware of what the Tenants were claiming and the argument
before me by both sides was focussed on the hotel fees as out-of-pocket
expenses and whether they were reasonable. While
I do not believe that any formal amendments are required, to the extent
necessary, the Tenants’ applications are amended
to reflect that the hotel
fees are being claimed as out-of-pocket
expenses.
 
36.  The Landlord did not dispute the Tenants’ claim that
they paid $14,795.40 for accommodations while they were unable to live in the rental unit. She asserted,
however. that what the Tenants paid to stay at the Ports Hotel was
unreasonable because the Ports Hotel
had ‘all the bells and whistles’.
 
37.  The Landlord’s evidence
was that the suite the Tenants occupied at the Ports Hotel
came fully furnished, had a balcony,
and that air conditioning, cable television, high-speed internet and telephone
service were included (Landlord Exhibit 4), but the rental unit was not
furnished, had no balcony, and air conditioning, cable television, high-speed
internet and telephone service were not included in the Tenants’ rent.5
The Landlord also argued that
the rental unit had one bedroom, but the Tenants’ suite at the Ports Hotel had
two bedrooms. However, that: (a) the Landlord advertised the rental unit as
having two bedrooms; and (b) in the e-mail that she sent to Ms Tagulao-Moylan
dated June 24, 2020, the Landlord referred to removing ‘the small bedroom’. I
find as a fact that the rental had two bedrooms.
 
38.  The Act requires that out-of-pocket expenses be reasonable. That, in my view, does not require that I engage in a granular
analysis to determine what the theoretical cost to the Tenants would have been for temporary accommodations that were
identical to the rental unit or attempt to discount the amount
paid for the temporary accommodation selected by the Tenants on the basis
that there might be amenities included in the ‘rent’ paid by the Tenants for those accommodations that are not included
in the rent they pay for the rental unit. The issue I must decide is whether the out-of-pocket expenses
claimed by the Tenants for the temporary accommodations they selected are
reasonable in the circumstances and, based on the evidence, I find that they
are.
 
39.  I do not consider the Port Hotel to be
extravagant. Ms Tagulao-Moylan testified that their suite at the Ports Hotel was the
same size as the rental unit. The only difference between the suite at the Ports Hotel and the rental unit appears
to be the additional amenities included in the ‘rent’
the Tenants’ paid at the Ports Hotel.
I do not consider that those additional amenities result in
the out-of-pocket cost to the Tenants
of staying at the Ports Hotel unreasonable. The
issue, in my view, is whether the Tenants out-of-pocket
 












5 Ms Tagulao-Moylan testified that they paid $60-90 per
month for electricity and $120-$140 per month for an internet/cable television/telephone package.
She further testified
that they continued
to pay $30-$40 per month
in electricity at the rental unit after they vacated, which amount
they are not seeking to recover
from the Landlord on this
application.




 
expenses for temporary accommodations are appropriate in all of the circumstances and not whether the Tenants were able to locate accommodations
that were identical to the rental unit for the same price they were paying for
the rental unit.
 
40.  What accommodations
were available the cost is of the available options
are, in my view, factors that
need to be considered in determining whether out-of-pocket expenses for
temporary accommodations are reasonable
 
41.   Ms Tagulao-Moylan, who was eight months pregnant at
the time, testified as to the efforts she went through to find
an appropriate and economical place for
her family to live after the Landlord
told them that they had to move out of the rental unit while
it was being repaired.
 
42.  She testified that she went on the internet and found
the ‘cheapest hotel’ available—the Sheraton—until she could find more permanent
accommodations. She also testified that she used her points to pay for the
Sheraton.
 
43.  Ms Tagulao-Moylan evidence, which I accept,
was that after securing immediate housing for her family, she then engaged
in a process to locate more permanent accommodations and that she selected the Ports Hotel because it
was the most cost-effective option available.
She testified that she tried
to find a short-term rental into
which the family could move,
but that: (a) the minimum rental term
that she could find for an apartment
was one year; and (b) an Airbnb was
more expensive than the Ports Hotel. She
also explained that she received a discount from the Ports Hotel by using her
debit card rather than a credit card.
 
44.  I note that the Tenants have not made any claim for
out-of-pocket expenses relating to meals, but because
Ms Tagulao-Moylan selected a suite that had kitchen facilities. That must,
in my view, be factored in when considering if the ‘rent’ paid by the
Tenants at the Ports Hotel is reasonable.
 
45.  The fact that the suite in
the Ports Hotel came furnished
and that the ‘rent’ included
things like air conditioning, cable television, high-speed internet and
telephone service is, in my view, to be expected of temporary accommodations. I am unable to find that what the Tenants
paid at the Ports Hotel unreasonable in the absence of some evidence that the
Tenants could have found alternative accommodations in which to live while the
repairs were being completed that cost less than the Ports Hotel. There was no such evidence before me.
 
46.  Ms Perusini has never visited the Ports Hotel. Her only evidence to support her assertion that it had ‘all the bells and
whistles’ consisted of a print-out from the Parts Hotel’s website describing
the hotel. Her position was simply
that the Tenant’s hotel expenses were not reasonable because of the amenities
that the Port Hotel offered to guests that were not included
in the Tenants’ rent for the rental unit. Ms Perusini
appears to have done no research to determine what the price would have
been for accommodations that she considers reasonable or comparable to the
unit, assuming such accommodations
were available, and to just criticize the choice made by the Tenants. In this respect, the Landlord’s opposition
was simply an ‘argument in the air’.




 
 
 
47.  There is no evidence that the Landlord offered to
assist the Tenants to find temporary accommodations. As noted elsewhere, the
only assistance provided to the Tenants by the Landlord was to return their
rent deposit. While the Landlord may have been under no positive obligation to provide assistance, she cannot
now, in my view, complain that the cost for the temporary accommodations that
Tenants found on their own is unreasonable on the basis of the amenities included in the ‘rent’ paid by the Tenants for those
temporary accommodations without
some evidence that suggests that the ‘rent’
is unreasonable.
 
Rent Abatement—$477.276
 
48.  The Tenants asked
for ‘rent abatement’ based on the argument
that if the Landlord had served an N13, she would have been
required by the Act to provide the Tenants with compensation equal to one
month’s rent, which in this case would have been $945.54. The Landlord opposed
the grant by me of that remedy.
 
49.  This was not a situation where the Landlord served an N13 or sought
to evict the Tenants
based on the repairs that were required to be made to the rental unit. Mr.
English acknowledged that the entitlement to this amount was ‘debatable’ and
was not able to provide me with any authorities to support the argument that
the Tenants are entitled to compensation as if the Landlord had served an N13.
 
50.  While I have broad discretion under subsections 30(1) and 31(1) to make any order that I consider appropriate, including a
rent abatement, I do not consider it appropriate, in the circumstances, to
provide the Tenants with a full month’s rent abatement on the theory put
forward by Mr. English. The evidence
indicates, however, that the Tenants paid
$954.54 in rent for the month of June of 2020, but
were only able to occupy the rental unit for only a portion of the month before the Landlord asked that they vacate
so that the unit could be repaired. For that
reason, I believe that a 50% rent abatement for June 2020,
or
$477.27, is appropriate.
 
51.  In finding that a rent abatement of $477.27 is
appropriate, I have considered the requirements of section 8 of the
General Regulations. I find that the interference caused by the delay in
completing the repairs to the rental unit was unreasonable and the Landlord did
not satisfy all of the conditions in subsection 8(4) of the General
Regulations. I also find that an abatement of the rent for
June of 2020 of more than 25% is warranted because the interference far exceeded the
level that would normally be expected having regard to the relevant circumstances and the work was carried out over a period of time in excess of the
amount of time that normally would be required.
 
Filing Fee—$53.00
 
52. 
I am ordering that the Landlord pay the Tenants
the $53.00 fee that they paid to file their applications.


6 The evidence was that the Tenants, with the agreement
of the Landlord, stopped paying rent after June of 2020 and did not begin to pay rent until
December 15, 2020.




 
Mitigation by the Tenants
 
53.  The Tenants had an obligation to section 16 of the Act to reduce or mitigate their losses. I find that they
did. Aside from having tenant insurance, Ms. Tagulao-Moylan testified as to the efforts undertaken by her to ensure that the hotel
chosen was the best value. I also
note that the Tenants are not seeking any compensation for additional costs
associated with living in a hotel such as meals because Ms Tagulao-Moylan
selected a hotel that had kitchen facilities.
The Tenants also used ‘self-help’ to move their possession into and out of storage. I find
there is nothing further that
the Tenants could have reasonably
done to reduce or mitigate their losses.
 
Tenants’ Insurance
 
54. 
The Tenants
received $10,614.00 from
their insurer to partially pay their out-of-pocket expenses.
 
Summary of Remedies
 
55.  The Tenants are entitled to out-of-pocket expenses of $6,903.51,
which represent the Tenants’ claimed out-of-pocket expenses of $14,795.40 less the $10,614.00 that
received from their insurer. To
put that amount in context, that is less than ‘rent differential’ between what
the Tenants were paying at the Ports Hotel, which I have found is reasonable,
and the rent they were paying for the rental unit. I am also awarding the tenants a rent abatement of $477.27 and
the fee they paid to file their applications
 
 
 
Landlord Arguments not Relevant to Tenants’ Remedies
 
56.  The Landlord argued
that: (a) she has had to pay money out of her own pocket to pay for the repairs to the rental unit because her insurance did not
provide 100% coverage; (b) her insurance did not cover all of the rent she
lost; and (c) the Tenants have the
benefit of what amounts to ‘new’ rental unit.
These facts are not particularly relevant to the Tenants’ claim for compensation. The Landlord had an obligation under subsection 20(1) to repair the rental unit and the
issue is whether they have breached that obligation and what remedies flow from
that breach. The fact that the Landlord
incurred costs to comply with her
obligation under subsection 20(1) is not, for example, relevant to the issue of
whether a landlord complied with its obligations under subsection 20(1)—it is
expected that a landlord will incur costs to comply with its obligations under
subsection 20(1)—or what remedies are to flow if has not.
 
Costs
 
57.  Rules 23.2 and 23.3
of the Board’s Rules provide:
 
23.2        
A member
may exercise discretion to order a party
to pay another party's:




 
 
(a)        
representation/preparation fees; and
 
(b)        
other out-of-pocket expenses.
 
Where the LTB orders
a party to pay the representation/preparation fees incurred by another party, these fees shall not
exceed $100 per hour for the services of a paid representative to a maximum of
$700.
 
23.3        
A party who engages
in unreasonable conduct
which causes undue delay or expense may be ordered to pay costs to
another party.
 
55.  
I would like to receive written
submissions from the parties with respect to costs. The Tenants may provide me with a written submission of no more
than 5 pages plus a bill of costs
within 15 days of the issuance of this order. The Landlord
may provide me with a responding
written submission of no more than 5 pages within 10 days of the delivery of
the Tenants’ written submission. I
wish to note for the benefit of the Landlord that I will not consider any dispute(s) with respect to the hourly
rate(s) or the time spent by the
Tenants’ legal representative in the absence of a bill of costs reflecting the hourly rate(s) and the time spent by the
Landlord’s legal representative.
 
56.   I will release
an additional order
only should I determine that it is appropriate to award
costs.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord shall pay to the Tenants a total
of $7,433.78, which is comprised of: (a)
$6,903.51 in out-of-pocket expenses; (b) $477.27 in respect of a rent abatement; and (c)
$53.00 for the
cost of filing the applications.
 
2.     The Landlord shall pay the Tenants the full amount
owing by February
28, 2022.
 
3.     If the Landlord
does not pay the Tenants
the full amount
owing by February
28, 2022 the Landlord will owe interest. This will
be simple interest calculated from March 1, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
outstanding balance.
 
 
 
February 7, 2022
Date Issued
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite
700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

