Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-07
File number:	
TNT-25404-20

Citation:	Alughareh v Amiri, 2022 CanLII 56672 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq1c2>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Sections 30, 31 and 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TNT-25404-20
TNL-25837-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


28 BAYWOOD COURT
SOUTH MARKHAM ON L3T5W3


 




Between:


Farrokh Eskandari Alughareh Abbas Hemmati Roozbehani


Tenants




 


 
And


 




 


Ehsan Amiri
Laleh
Seyyed-Kalantari


Landlords



 
 
Farrokh
Eskandari Alughareh and Abbas Hemmati Roozbehani (the 'Tenants') applied for an
order determining that Laleh Seyyed-Kalantari and Ehsan Amiri (the 'Landlords')
harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with them and
substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their household. This is the T2
Application.
 
The Tenants also
applied for an order determining that the Landlords failed to meet the
Landlords' maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety,
housing or maintenance standards. This is the T6 Application.
 
The Landlords also applied
for an order to terminate the
tenancy and evict the Tenants because the Landlords require possession of the rental
unit for the purpose of residential occupation. The Landlords also claimed compensation for each day the Tenants
remained in the unit after the termination date. This is the L2 Application.
 
These applications were heard together
on October 14, 2021.
 
The Landlords, the Landlords’ legal
representative Rong Wei Yu, the Tenants and the Tenants’ legal representative Laurence
Pomfret attended the hearing.
 
Reasons:
 
L2 Application
 
1.   
At the hearing, the Landlord sought
to withdraw the L2 Application and the Board consented to the request.




 
2.   
The application having been withdrawn, the Board’s file is closed.
 
T2 Application
 
1.    
The Board received the Tenants’ T2 Application on March 9, 2020.
 
2.    
The T2 asserts that the Landlords’ response to the Tenants’ complaint about the smell of
smoke in the rental unit breached sections 22 or 23 of the Act, which provide:
 
22 
A landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of
a rental unit and before the day on which an order evicting the tenant is
executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all
usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.
 
23    
landlord shall not harass,
obstruct, coerce, threaten
or interfere with a
tenant.
 
3.    
In short summary of the
Tenants’ pleadings, The Tenants assert that they reported the smell of smoke to the Landlord
late at night on February
14, 2020 and that the Landlords
did not respond until 5:15 a.m. on February 15, 2020. The substance of the
Tenants’ complaint is that the Landlord ought to have contacted them by e-mail,
text message or phone call rather than attending at the rental unit unannounced
with a person from the gas company. Instead, the Tenants’ describe being
subject to the “continuous and horrifying sound of [the] doorbell”, which is
later described as “not only one time but two times when it is in the middle of
the night and everybody is sleeping”.
 
4.    
It is uncontested that
Mr. Roozbehani sent an e-mail to Mr. Amiri at 11:38 p.m. on February 14, 2020. This e-mail states:
“There is a smell of smoke in the house whenever
the furnace starts working.” It is also uncontested that a person from Enbridge
and Mr. Amiri attended at the rental unit in the early morning of February 15,
2020. Enbridge diagnosed a gas leak in the supply line to the furnace, issued a
red tag warning and the Landlords replaced the gas line on February 17, 2020.
 
5.    
As for each parties’
description of the events of February 15, 2020, Mr. Amiri testified
that he woke by chance at 3:00 a.m., saw the Tenants’ e-mail, discussed
the e-mail with his wife, called Enbridge, that Enbridge decided to treat the
matter as an emergency. Mr. Amiri then went to the rental unit, waited for
Enbridge to attend and tried to call the Tenants. It was only after the person sent by Enbridge tried knocking on the door that the
Landlord connected with the Tenants,
at which point in time the Landlord gave the phone to the person from Enbridge who
asked the Tenants to open the door.
 
6.    
Although Mr. Roozbehani
admitted that the issue was urgent, Mr. Roozebehani also testified that there was a gap of 5-hours
from when he reported the smell of smoke to the
Landlord, that the Engbridge technician told him that the Landlords did not
call Enbridge until around 4:00 a.m. and that there was sufficient time for the
Landlords to contact the Tenants before someone woke the family and entered the
unit to address the issue.




 
7.    
My view is that the
Tenants’ evidence does not support a finding that the Landlords’ response to the Tenants’
complaint constitutes a breach of either section
22 or 23 of the Act for several reasons.
 
8.    
First, section 22 of
the Act does not forbid all interferences. The interference itself must be substantial. Even if I accept the Tenants’ pleadings in their entirety,
I am not satisfied that the
Tenants’ subjection to the sound of the doorbell constitutes a “substantial”
interference with their reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit in the
circumstances.
 
9.    
Second, I do not accept
the Tenants’ evidence that the
Landlord did not try to contact the Tenants before the Enbridge technician
sought entry into the rental unit. Mr. Amiri’s testimony was supported by a call log, which shows that the Landlords
tried to contact
the Tenants before and after contacting Enbridge. But even if I were to
find otherwise, nothing turns on the
issue of whether the Landlords contacted the Tenants before the Enbridge
technician or the Landlords entered the rental unit.
 
10.  The Tenants smelled smoke every time the
furnace engaged. They reported this situation to the Landlords. The Landlords
reported the issue to Enbridge soon after receiving the Tenants’ e-mail
and Enbridge treated
the situation as an emergency
as confirmed by their
decision to send a technician to the rental unit in the early hours of February
15, 2020. The situation was in fact an emergency, as the smell of smoke
signalled a potentially serious risk to the health and safety of the Tenants.
Pursuant to subsection 26(1) of the Act, the Landlords were entitled to enter
the rental unit at any time without giving the Tenants any notice to address
the emergency. The Landlords cannot reasonably be described as breaching either
sections 22 or 23 of the Act for promptly responding to an emergency
maintenance issue in the rental unit when the Act expressly grants the
Landlords the right to enter the unit without any notice whatsoever.
 
T6 Application
 
11.  The Tenants’ T6 Application asserts
that the Landlords
breached subsection 20(1) of the Act, which provides:
 
20 (1) A landlord
is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in it,
in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with health,
safety, housing and maintenance standards.
 
12.  In short summary, the Tenants’ assert that
there were issues with the washer door, the range elements, the porch lock and window, the backyard fence,
mould in the basement
closet and the smoke detector.
 
Range Elements
 
13.  The Tenants introduced no evidence about the range elements. This issue will therefore
be dismissed as abandoned.
 
Smoke Detector




 
14.  The Tenants introduced no evidence about the smoke detector. This issue will therefore
be dismissed as abandoned.
 
Washer
 
15.  The Tenants’ pleadings indicate that there was an issue with the washer door between November 2016 and July 2017.
Although the application was filed in March 2020, the pleadings do not suggest
that there is an ongoing issue with the washer.
 
16. 
Pursuant to subsection 29(2)
of the Act, “[n]o application may be made under subsection
(1) more than one year after the day the alleged conduct giving rise
to the application occurred.” I therefore have no jurisdiction to consider the washer issue from 2016 and
2017. This aspect of the Tenants’ claim will therefore be dismissed.
 
17.  At the hearing, the only evidence about a
more recent issue with the washer was the Tenants’ e-mail to the Landlord on February 24, 2020. This e-mail states that the washer
door got locked with some laundry inside and that the washer does not switch on
or release even after unplugging. The Landlord replied to the Tenants the next
day, informing the Tenants that he had called Whirlpool and that Whirlpool
would send a technician the next day. The Landlord’s uncontested evidence was
that the issue was repaired within 3-4 days of the Tenants’ complaint.
 
18.  My view is that the Landlords’ response
was reasonable. The Landlord acknowledged the Tenants’ concern within 1-day and fully resolved the issue
within 3-4 days. There is no breach of subsection 20(1) of the Act and this
aspect of the Tenants’ application will be dismissed.
 
Porch Lock and Window
 
19. 
The porch in question
is an enclosed porch.
 
20.  Mr. Roozbehani introduced an undated
photograph of a porch window (IMG-0075). He explained that the window to the
porch got stuck, could not be closed and that the Tenants had to cover it with a nylon sheet because
the Landlord did nothing to address it for 2-years. He explained that this
issue caused a loss of heat from the residential complex, including the bedroom
above the porch.
 
21. 
The Landlord did not really contest that the
Tenants’ evidence to the
effect that the porch window was not in a good state of repair. The result is that I find this allegation proven
on the balance of probabilities.
 
22. 
The difficulty is the appropriate remedy.
 
23.  Apart from describing the issue, the
Tenants provided little evidence about how the issue affected them. The Tenants
also did not provide any evidence that would help me quantify the issue, such as temperature readings. So, while I accept
that the problem
with the window caused some loss of heat from the residential complex,
the absence of such




 
evidence leads me to conclude that it is only appropriate to award a nominal abatement of $25.00 per month.
 
24.  As I understood Mr. Roozbehani’s evidence, the impact of the window on the household
was felt in the cold season. Although
the Tenants did not explain
what they meant by the cold season, it is reasonable to adopt
the period between September 1 and June 15, as this is the period when heat is
deemed to be a vital service.
 
25.  Bearing in mind that the Tenants vacated
the rental unit on September 4, 2020 and that the application was filed on
March 9, 2020, the total period for which there is jurisdiction to award a
remedy is March 9, 2019 to September 4, 2020. In this period, the affected
months are March 9, 2019 to June 15, 2019 and September 15, 2019 to June 15,
2020. The Landlords will therefore be ordered to pay the Tenants is $307.40: $25.00
per month x 12 months / 365
days x 374 days.
 
Fence
 
26.  The Tenants’ pleadings indicate that the backyard fence
collapsed on November
7, 2018, that the Tenants
informed the Landlord of the issue the same day as well as on July 25, 2019,
September 7, 2019 and October 11, 2019 and that the issue continued until
November 2019 at which time the Landlord implemented a temporary fix.
 
27.  There was no dispute that the portion
of the backyard fence did collapse on November 7, 2018. This was consistent with the
evidence introduced by both parties. There was also no dispute that the Tenants
did contact the Landlords as set out in their pleadings, as each of their
e-mails to the Landlords can be found in the Landlords’ book of documents. The issues then is the
reasonableness of the Landlords’ response.
 
28.  As noted in Board Interpretation Guideline
5, Breach of Maintenance Obligations, the cases generally support the principle that,
if the landlord responded within
a reasonable time, and the
response was appropriate to effect the repair, no abatement or other remedy
should be ordered. Although there is often a dispute between whether repairs
undertaken by a landlord have been
properly done, tenants do not have a
right to insist upon a standard of perfection.
 
29.  Mr. Roozbehani’s testimony to the effect
that “nothing happened” until the Landlord implemented a temporary fix in
November 2019 is not accurate. Mr. Amiri responded to the Tenants’ November
2018 e-mail on the same day and indicated his
available to drop by the next day. Mr. Roozbehani responded that the day after
would be fine. The Landlord replied that this day may not work for him. Mr.
Roozbehani informed the Landlord that he could also look at the fence from the
outside and that he temporarily secured the fence with a pole from the inside. The Landlord’s uncontested evidence was
that he did attend to inspect the fence from the outside
as suggested by Mr. Roozbehani, tested its strength with his
hand, found that the Tenants’ repair had fixed the issue and therefore took no
further action.
 
30.  As noted above,
the relevant period
for the purposes
of this application is March 9, 2019 to September 4, 2020. In circumstances
where the Tenants did not raise any issue with




 
the fence again
until July 25, 2019, my view is that the Landlords’ response was timely and
reasonable. The Tenant informed him that he secured the fence, the Landlord
confirmed that the fence was secure and functioning properly and here were no
subsequent complaints from the Tenants until July 25, 2019. There was a
reasonable basis for the Landlord to conclude that there was no active issue
with the fence and that nothing further needed
to be done. The Tenants
are therefore not entitled to a remedy
for the period ending July 24, 2019.
 
31.  The Tenants raised the issue of the fence
with the Landlords on July 25, 2019.
However, this e-mail does not identify any active issue with the fence. Rather,
the Tenants acknowledge that they straightened the fence and describe the issue
as being that the fence “needs to be fixed
permanently”. In other
words, the real substance of the Tenants’ issue is not that the fence
is not functioning properly but that they want a higher standard of repair. The same can be said
with respect to the Tenants’ e-mail of September 7, 2019, which also does not describe
an active issue with the function of the fence. In fact, neither of the Tenants
provided any testimony to the effect that the fence was not functioning
properly between November 2018 and October 11, 2019, at which time the Tenants
first informed the Landlords that the fence had fallen several times and that
the Tenants were therefore concerned for their safety. In the circumstances, I
am not persuaded that there was an active issue with the fence or that the
Landlord had any reason to believe that the fence was not functioning properly
until October 11, 2019. It is therefore not appropriate to award a remedy for
the period ending October 10, 2019.
 
32.  As for the Landlord’s response to the
Tenants’ October 11, 2019 e-mail, the Tenants’ assertion that the Landlord did
nothing is not correct. On cross-examination, Mr. Roozbehani admitted
that the Landlord
replied with a notice of entry to address the fence
issue but that he confronted the Landlord about attending the residential
complex near the end of 2-hour time frame and because the Landlord had not
attended with a technician or tools. Mr. Amiri’s uncontested evidence was that
the Mr. Roozbehani started shouting at him and that he left the residential
complex. On cross-examination, Mr. Amiri confirmed that he did not feel safe to attend the residential complex
but that the fence was fixed in November 2019.
 
33.  My view is that the Landlord’s response was
reasonable. The Landlord’s issuance of a notice of entry was the appropriate
response. Regardless of whether the Landlord attended near the end of the
specified period of entry, and regardless of whether Mr. Roozbehani saw a
technician or tools, there was no reason for the Tenants to interfere with Mr.
Amiri’s attempt to address the fence issue by shouting. It was in my view
reasonable for Mr. Amiri to leave the residential complex
to de-escalate the situation and the resulting delay in addressing the
fence issue falls on the shoulders of the Tenants.
 
34.  Finally, Mr. Roozbehani also admitted that
an agent of the Landlord attended the residential complex in November 2019 and
affixed boards to the fence with nails. Although Mr. Roozbehani testified
that he did not think of this as a proper fix, there was no evidence that this fix did solve
the functional issue with the fence. Any outstanding issues with the fence were cosmetic
and non-compensable. In all of the circumstances, the Tenants have not proven
entitlement to a remedy.




 
Basement Closet
 
35.  The history of the issue
with the basement
closet is as follows. The Tenants noticed
that their water bill was high, tried to understand the cause and called
the service provider. The service provider suggested there could be a leak.
After raising the issue with the Landlords a plumber checked to see if there
was a leak from the toilet in the powder room. The first plumber replaced the
toilet, but this did not resolve the leak. A second plumber resolved the leak.
To access the pipes the drop ceiling in the basement closet was removed. The
Tenants assert that the Landlords did not replace the drop ceiling in the
closet after addressing this issue and took no action to address the resulting
mould.
 
36.  On this issue, Mr. Roozbehani introduced an
undated photograph of the closet ceiling (IMG-6507). This photograph depicts
pipes running through a subfloor between the floor joists and discoloration of
the subfloor in and around the area of the pipes. Mr. Roozbehani testified that
debris was falling on clothing and other items kept in the closed and that he
removed these items out of a concern for mould. On cross-examination, Mr.
Roozbehani confirmed that the Landlord
resolved the issue of the leak and that he had no evidence confirming that there was
mould in the rental unit. However, Mr. Roozbehani asserted the Landlords did not clean up after the plumbers attended the unit and ought
to have replaced the drop ceiling.
 
37.  Mr. Amiri testified that a plumber
discovered the leak and suggested to him that there might be termites in the wood.
He denied being
told about a mould concern
until another hearing date in
March 2020. Mr. Amiri testified that he proposed an inspection but that the
Tenants denied this due to the COVID-19 pandemic. As for why he did not replace
the drop ceiling in the closet,
Mr. Amiri explained that this
was a cosmetic issue and that he wanted to keep the area open to make it easier to
monitor for leaks. On cross- examination, Mr. Amiri admitted that the advice he
received to the effect that there was no termites or mould came from persons he
talked with at Home Depot.
 
38.  I disagree with the Landlord that the issue
with the drop ceiling is purely cosmetic. In similar circumstances, the Board
awarded an abatement of 5% for plaster missing from the ceiling of a bedroom
closet: SOL-59823-15 (Re), 2015 CanLII 59180 (ON LTB) at paragraph 9. In circumstances where there was no evidence
that the Tenants
complained about this issue before September 16, 2019, but where it was
uncontested that the Landlords did not attempt to remedy the issue before the
Tenants vacated the rental unit on September 4, 2020, my view is that it is
also appropriate to award a rent abatement of 5% for the period September 16,
2019 to September 4, 2020. This totals $1,280.22:
$2,200.00 per month
x 12 months / 365 days x 5% x 354 days.
 
39.  My view is that no further abatement is
warranted. On the one hand, I accept the Landlords’ testimony to the effect
that they had no knowledge of any potential mould issue until March 2020. This
is consistent with the evidence in the Landlords’ book of documents. For instance, the Tenants’ September 16, 2019 e-mail
to the Landlords only asks
the Landlord to fix the ceiling in the closet of the basement and does not
mention the possibility of mould. The same can be said with respect to the
Tenants’ e-mails of October 11, 2019 and November 28, 2019. Finally, the single
undated photograph introduced by the Tenant was not in my view sufficient to establish that there was mould




 
in the closet at any time, including the period from March 2020 until the Tenants vacated on September 4, 2020. In other
words, the Tenants did not establish the presence of mould on the balance of
probabilities.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlords’ L2 Application is withdrawn and the Board’s
file is closed.
 
2.    
The Landlords
shall pay to the Tenants
a rent abatement of $1,587.62.
 
3.    
The Landlords
shall also pay to the Tenants $50.00
for the cost of filing the application.
 
4.    
The total amount the Landlords owe is $1,637.62.
 
5.    
The Landlords
shall pay the Tenants the full amount owing by January 18, 2022.
 
6.    
If the Landlords do not pay the Tenants
the full amount
owing by January
18, 2022, they will owe interest. This will be
simple interest calculated from January 19, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
balance outstanding.
 
7.    
The Tenants
have the right, at any time, to collect the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
 




January 7, 2022 Date Issued
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite 700, 7th Floor
Toronto ON M2N5X5



 
 
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

