Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-10
File number:	
TNT-28001-20

Citation:	Amjadian v Farshidfar, 2022 CanLII 56694 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq1c6>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 



 


Order under
Section 57
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006


 




 


File Number: TNT-28001-20




 
In the matter
of:


 
262 MAXOME AVENUE NORTH YORK ON M2M3L8


 




Between:


Jaleh Amjadian


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Farshad Farshidfar


Landlord



 
 
Jaleh Amjadian
(the ‘Tenant’) applied
for an order determining that Farshad Farshidfar (the ‘Landlord’) gave a notice of termination in bad faith.
 
This application was heard by videoconference
on October 14, 2021.
 
The Tenant,
the Tenant’s legal representative, Joe Myers, the Landlord, and the Landlord’s daughter, Tina Farshidfar
(‘TF’), attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The rental unit is a
bedroom located in the basement of the residential complex. The Tenant shared
the basement with another tenant.
There were 4 other tenants
living in the upstairs portion of the rental
complex.
 
2.    
This application is brought pursuant
to s. 57(1)(a) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the 'Act')
which states:
 
57 (1) The Board may make an order described in
subsection (3) if, on application by a former tenant of a rental unit, the
Board determines that,
 
(a)               
the landlord gave a
notice of termination under section 48 in bad faith, the former tenant vacated
the rental unit as a result of the notice or as a result of an application to
or order made by the Board based on the notice, and no person referred
to in clause 48 (1) (a),
(b), (c) or (d) occupied the rental unit within a reasonable time after the
former tenant vacated the rental unit;
 
3.    
What this provision means is that in order to succeed
on this application the Tenant must
lead sufficient evidence to establish it is more likely than not that:
 
(a)     
The Tenant got a notice of termination under s. 48;
 
(b)     
She moved out of the rental
unit as a result
of the Landlord’s notice;




 
(c)       The notice was given in bad faith
meaning the Landlord did not have a genuine
intention of moving into the rental unit; and
 
(d)      The Landlord did not in fact move into the rental unit within a reasonable time after the Tenant vacated.
 
4.    
There is no dispute
between the parties about the first and fourth elements of this test. The
Landlord gave the Tenant an N12 notice on March 23, 2020 with a termination
date of May 31, 2020. The N12 notice
indicates that the Landlord and the
Landlord’s child (TF) would be
moving into the rental unit. Neither the Landlord nor TF moved into the rental
unit after the Tenant moved out on May 31, 2020. Rather, the rental unit was re-rented to another tenant
within days of the Tenant moving out.
 
5.    
What is in dispute
between the parties is whether: (a) the Tenant moved out of the rental unit as a result
of the Landlord’s notice, and (2)
the Landlord gave the notice in bad faith.
 
Did the tenant move out pursuant
to the N12 notice?
 
6.    
The Landlord
takes the position that the Tenant moved out voluntarily and not pursuant
to the N12 notice.
In support of this position, the Landlord refers to an email that he received
from the Tenant on April 15, 2020 wherein the Tenant informs the Landlord that
she cannot move “until the Covid pandemic is over”. The Landlord takes this
email as an agreement between the parties to rescind the N12 and allow the
Tenant to remain in the rental unit. The Landlord also points to the
fact that the Tenant paid the rent for May 2020
as support for his position.
 
7.    
I disagree with the
Landlord’s assertion that the Tenant did not move out as a result of the N12.
In my view, the April 15 email is a plea to the Landlord for additional time to
move, due to the ongoing
pandemic. The Landlord
did not respond
to the Tenant’s email to
unequivocally rescind the N12 or inform the Tenant that the Landlord was no
longer seeking to terminate the tenancy. I also note that the Tenant sent
another email to the Landlord on May 20, 2020 indicating that she would be
moving out pursuant to the N12 notice which the Landlord also did not respond
to. The Landlord confirmed in a text message to the Tenant that he did receive
the May 20 email. Had there been an agreement for the tenancy to continue, one
would expect the Landlord to respond indicating their agreement.
 
8.    
As it was the Landlord that gave the Tenant the notice of termination, it was
incumbent on the Landlord to
unequivocally state that the N12 notice was rescinded. The Landlord did not do
this which left the Tenant in a state of ambiguity which I resolve in favour of
the Tenant. The Tenant paying the rent for May 2020 does not support that Landlord’s
position. It is common for tenants to continue to pay their rent even after receiving notices of termination from their landlords.
 
9.    
Therefore, I find that the
Tenant vacated the rental unit on May 31, 2020 pursuant to the
N12 notice.
 
Did the Landlord serve the N12 in bad
faith?




 
10.  I would observe
at this point that the reverse onus provision in subsection 57(5) of the Act
applies to this situation. This provision states:
 
(5) For the purposes of an application under clause (1) (a), it is presumed, unless the contrary
is proven on a balance of probabilities, that a landlord gave a notice
of termination under section 48 in bad faith, if at any time during the period
described in subsection (6) the landlord,
…
(a)    enters into a tenancy agreement in respect of the rental
unit with someone
other than the former tenant;
…
 
11.  This provision means
that, because there
is uncontested evidence before
me that, during the one year period after the
Tenant moved out of the rental unit, the Landlord entered into a tenancy
agreement with another tenant, the Landlord bears the burden of proof to
establish that he did not serve the notices of termination in bad faith.
 
12.  For the following reasons, I find that the
Landlord has not met this burden. TF’s explanation that she did not move into
the rental unit because of the Tenant’s April 15 email asking for more time to vacate
is not persuasive. As I indicated
above, I do not find that there was an agreement between
the parties to revoke the N12 and continue the tenancy.
 
13.  TF testified that she had lost her job due
to the pandemic and she could not afford her rent. As a result, she decided to
move into the basement of her father’s rental complex. Accordingly, TF gave
notice to terminate to her landlord, Hamid Jalil Olghadr (‘HJO’). However,
after receiving the April 15 email from the Tenant asking for more time to
vacate, TF informed HJO that she would be staying in her unit. To corroborate
her testimony, TF submitted an email
from HJO dated October 15, 2021 stating that TF gave notice to terminate her tenancy in March 2020 but rescinded her notice on April 16, 2020.
 
14.  I give HJO’s email little weight. The email
from HJO is hearsay; it is an out of court statement adduced for the truth of
its contents without the ability to cross-examine HJO. The Landlord did not
provide sufficient reasons for not calling HJO as a witness. I also note that HJO’s email is written
approximately 20 months
from the date TF
allegedly gave her notice
which makes me question the reliability of the evidence.
 
15.  Further,
TF’s explanation for remaining in her unit is inconsistent with her testimony
that she needed to move out and occupy the rental unit because she lost
her job and could not afford to stay there.
 
16.  Therefore,
I find that the Landlord
gave the Tenant the N12 notice
in bad faith.
 
Remedy
 
17. 
The Tenant
requested a rent abatement,
rent differential, a fine and general damages.
 
Abatement




 
18.  Although
the Tenant is requesting an abatement of rent in the amount
of $13,500.00, I do
not find that remedy to be warranted here. An abatement recognises the idea
that a tenant is paying rent for a bundle of goods and services and if the
tenant is not receiving everything being paid for then he or she is entitled to
abatement proportional to the difference between what is being paid for and
what is being received. At the hearing, the Tenant led no evidence that she was
prevented from using a portion of the rental unit at any time before she moved
out. For this reason, the Tenant is not entitled to an abatement of the rent.
 
Rent differential
 
19. 
The Tenant’s
application does not claim
rent differential as a remedy. Therefore, the Board cannot make
an award if it is not claimed
by the applicant (Beauge v. Metcap Living Management
Inc., 2012 ONSC 1160 (CanLII).
 
20.  The Tenant’s application was filed with the
Board on September 3, 2020. While I acknowledge the Tenant retained counsel
after filing her application, there was ample time for counsel to amend the application. No such amendments were made. As a result, I declined the Tenant’s request
to award rent differential.
 
General damages
 
21.  The Board has the authority, pursuant to subsection 57(3) of the Act to award “any other
order that the Board considers appropriate.”
 
22.  The Landlord’s actions had a considerable
impact on the Tenant. The Tenant was given the notice to terminate her tenancy
at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, forcing her to search for a place
and move during a time of lockdown, stay at home orders and restrictions. I accept that the Tenant
was considerably stressed
during this time. She was a refugee and had to borrow money to
pay rent at her new place. She is now paying more for her current rental which
is smaller and has a shared kitchen, bathroom and laundry facilities.
 
23.  Given the impact on the Tenant, the lack of other remedies
and similar decisions
of the Board, I find it
appropriate to award the Tenant $4,500.00 for general damages.
 
Administrative fine
 
24.  The Tenant also requested
that the Landlord be ordered
to pay an administrative fine. Pursuant to the Board’s
Interpretation Guideline 16:
 
An administrative fine is a remedy to be used by the Board to encourage compliance with the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the "RTA"), and to deter landlords from engaging in similar activity in the future. This
remedy is not normally imposed unless a landlord has shown a blatant disregard
for the RTA and other remedies will not provide adequate deterrence and
compliance. Administrative fines and rent abatements serve different purposes.
Unlike a fine, a rent abatement is intended to
compensate a tenant for a contravention of a tenant's rights or a breach of the
landlord's obligations.




 
25.  I find that this is an appropriate case for an administrative fine for deterrence and I say this for the
following reasons.
 
26.  There is no dispute that the Landlord has
several rental units in the residential complex. An administrative fine is required to deter the Landlord from serving notices
of termination in bad faith
on his other tenants.
 
27.  I do not believe the additional remedies
awarded will be sufficient deterrence. I say this because the
Landlord has shown a blatant disregard for the Act. For example, the Landlord
failed to give the Tenant the one-month compensation required pursuant to
section 48.1 until the Tenant complained to the Rental Housing Enforcement
Unit.
 
28.  Regarding
the quantum of the fine, the Board’s Interpretation Guideline says:
 
In setting the amount of the fine, the Member
may consider:
 
•        
the nature
and severity of the breach
•        
the effect
of the breach on the tenant
•        
any other relevant factors.
 
The amount of the fine should be commensurate with the breach.
 
29.  Given all of the above and my knowledge of like similar
cases before the Board
it seems to me a reasonable
administrative fine in all of the circumstances here would be
$1,000.00.
 
30.  This order contains
all of the reasons for the decision
within it and no further reasons
will be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord
shall pay to the Tenant general damages
of $4,500.00.
 
2.    
The Landlord
shall also pay to the Tenant $53.00 for the cost of filing the
application.
 
3.    
The Landlord
shall also pay to the Landlord and Tenant Board
an administrative fine in
the amount of $1,000.00 by February 10, 2022.*
 
4.    
The total amount the Landlord owes the Tenant is $4,553.00.
 
5.    
The Landlord
shall pay the Tenant the full amount
owing by January
21, 2022.
 
6.    
If the Landlord does not pay the Tenant the
full amount owing by February 10, 2022 the Landlord will owe interest. This will be simple interest
calculated from February 11, 2022
at 2.00% annually on the outstanding balance.
 
 
January 10, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Khalid Akram
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
 
 
Toronto North-RO
47 Sheppard
Avenue East, Suite
700, 7th Floor Toronto ON M2N5X5
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
* Payment of the fine must be made to the
Board by the deadline set out above. The fine can be paid by certified cheque, bank draft or money order made payable
to the Minister of Finance. If paying in person, the debt can also be paid by cash, credit card or debit
card.

