Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-04
File number:	
TSL-18207-20

Citation:	Kianseng Enterprises Ltd v Hills, 2022 CanLII 57873 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq2z2>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TSL-18207-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


3, 1549A EGLINTON AVENUE W TORONTO ON
  M6E2G9


 




Between:


Kianseng Enterprises Ltd


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Donna
Hills


Tenant



 
 
 
Kianseng
Enterprises Ltd (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy
and evict Donna Hills (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another occupant of
the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has wilfully
or negligently caused
undue damage to the premises.
The Landlord has also applied for an
order requiring the Tenant to compensate the Landlord for the damage; because
the Tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or someone the Tenant permitted
in the residential complex has substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest of the Landlord or another
tenant; and because the number of persons
living in the unit on a continuing basis is more than permitted
by health, safety or housing standards. The Landlord also claimed compensation
for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 12, 2021. Only the Landlord’s Agent, Kwok Ching Chan, attended the hearing. As of 11:35 a.m.
the Tenant was not present or represented at the hearing although properly served with notice
of this hearing as it appears from the Certificate of Service.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The application is
based on a voidable Notice of Termination (N5) served on the Tenant on September
22, 2020, with a termination date of October
15, 2020 because
the Tenant blocked the common
space with personal items, was aggressive and loud, and because the Tenant
permitted too many people to reside in the residential unit, contrary to s. 64 of
the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’). The Landlord also made a claim for damages to cover the cost of
cleaning and disposal of refuse.
 
2.    
The Landlord’s agent appeared at the hearing
and tendered four letters of complaint from other tenants, as well as three
photographs of the common area of the residential complex.




 
3.    
The Landlord
complained that the Tenant permitted too many people
to reside in the unit contrary to the City of Toronto
Property Standards By-Law 629-25 (c) which states, “The maximum number of
persons living in a habitable room shall not exceed one person for each nine
square metres of habitable room floor area.”
(the Landlord referenced bylaw 639 in error).
 
4.    
The Landlord
testified the unit occupied by the Tenant
is a one bedroom, approximately 380 sq feet (35.03 sq
metres). It is undisputed that the
Landlord believes nine to ten people are residing in the unit, based on his own
observations and the complaints received from other tenants. The other occupants
include the Tenant’s
sister, two other adults and six children ranging in
age from toddlers to teenagers. The
Landlord attempted to bring this to the Tenant’s attention, however, she was
dismissive and suggested that it was all family and she had a right to have
everyone living with her.
 
5.    
Based on the size of the unit as evidenced by the Landlord, the maximum occupancy of the unit is three people. The Tenant is permitting the overcrowding
of the unit by permitting nine people to live there.
 
6.    
The Landlord submitted
five photographs of the common space of the residential complex, three of the
roof which is accessible to the tenants, and two of the hallway outside the
Tenant’s unit. The hallway photos show up to seven full garbage bags, a wheeled
cart, a stroller and shoes, all partially blocking the hallway. The other photos show garbage, cases of
empty beer bottles, toys, bicycles, laundry and plastic totes on the roof terrace. It is the undisputed evidence
of the Landlord these items belong to the
Tenant.
 
7.    
The Landlord submitted
four letters of complaint regarding the Tenant. The letters complain the
Tenant’s personal items block the safe egress of other tenants may require in
the event of an emergency, as well as representing a tripping hazard. When a neighbour attempted to address
this with the Tenant, the Tenant and/or
her sister told the
complainant to move the stuff herself, and
suggested they were hoping the neighbour “would have an accident” by tripping
over the items. Another tenant
complained about the narrowness of the hallways and the difficulty in passing
while carrying groceries, laundry or recycling.
 
8.    
Three letters of
complaint included generalized references to loud parties, specifically music
and talking, happening every weekend well into the early hours of the morning.
The Notice of Termination references a noise complaint
of September 5, 2020, however the only evidence of a specific
noise complaint is found in one of the complaint letters dated September 22, 2020,
about a loud party on September 12, 2020. At
this time a party took place with loud music until approximately 2 am, making
the “unbearable evening” for the complainant.
 
9.    
The complaint letter of
September 19, 2020 described a confrontation between the Tenant and the author.
At this time, according to the letter,
the complainant attempted
to discuss the content of the hallways, expressing her concern the items
represented a tripping hazard. The
comments of the Tenant were rude, but, without context or further details I am
not satisfied the confrontation was aggressive as described in the notice.




 
 
 
10.  The voiding period for the Notice of
Termination was September 23, 2020 to September 29, 2020. It is the Landlord’s evidence that the Tenant has not voided the notice,
that she continues to have at least nine people live in the unit, has not removed
the personal items from the hallway, and continues to
have parties on the weekends disturbing the other neighbours.
 
11.  I am not satisfied that the Landlord has
provided sufficient evidence that the Tenant did not void the notice with respect
to the noise complaints. He referenced a noise complaint of September 5, 2020, and the
letter of complaint referred to a loud party on September 12, 2020. Both
of these complaints occurred before
the notice of termination was served
on the Tenant and the only evidence
tendered on the noise is not specific enough for me to determine that it
continued during or after the voiding period.
 
12. 
I am satisfied the Tenant has interfered with the lawful
rights, privileges or interests of the
Landlord as she continues to have more people residing in the unit than
permitted by the City of Toronto
Property Standards Code 629-25, and did not void the notice with respect
to this allegation.
 
13.  I am also satisfied that the Tenant has interfered with the Landlord or another tenant’s reasonable enjoyment of the
residential complex and their lawful rights, privileges or interests because the Tenant ’s personal items block
the common space of the residential complex, which interferes with other tenants
safe passage to and from their
units, and that the Tenant has not voided the notice with respect to this
allegation.
 
14.  The request for damages in the amount of $600.00
is denied. The Landlord is seeking
$600.00 to cover the costs to clean the common area and dispose
of the items blocking the
hallways and littering the roof.
 
15.  S. 89 of the Act says that a landlord
may apply to the Board
for reasonable costs for the
repair or replacement of damaged property where the Tenant wilfully or
negligently causes undue damage to the rental unit or the residential complex. Cleaning and garbage disposal are not
damage. There is nothing to be
repaired or replaced.
 
16.  I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief
from eviction subject to the
condition(s) set out in this order pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1)
of the Act providing the Tenant
reduce the number of people living in the unit to three, and remove all
personal items from the common areas of the residential complex.
 
It is ordered
that:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s
application for eviction is denied on the condition that, on or before January 15, 2022, the Tenant reduce
the number of occupants of the rental
unit to three people and remove all personal
items from the common areas (hallways and roof top).




 
2.    
The Tenant
shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing the application.
 
3.    
If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord
the full amount
owing on or before January
15, 2022, the Tenant will start to owe interest. This will be simple interest calculated from January 16, 2022 at
2.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
 
4.    








 
 
King



 


If the Tenant
does not comply
with the conditions set out in paragraph 1 by the dates
required, then the Landlord may apply under section 78 of the Act for an order
terminating the tenancy and evicting the Tenant.
 
 
January 4, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Dawn
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor
Street, 1st Floor Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.


