Metadata:
Date:	2022-02-02
File number:	
TSL-23414-21

Citation:	Hussain v Thong, 2022 CanLII 122615 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jtp6s>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TSL-23414-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


ROOM 2, 42 GALLEY
AVENUE TORONTO ON M6R1G8


 




Between:


Hussain Hussain


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Philip Thong


Tenant



 
 
 
Hussain
Hussain (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and
evict Philip Thong (the 'Tenant') because the Landlord requires possession of
the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation. The Landlord also
claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit after the
termination date.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on November 16, 2021. Matters
TSL-23414-21 and TSL-23415-21 are in respect of two units
in the same building. All parties consented to the matters being
heard together.
 
The Landlord,
the Landlord’s spouse
Suzane El Rass,
the Landlord representative N. Mizzi, the Tenant
and the Tenant Representatives J. Jang and S. Mason attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.   
The Landlord served the Tenants with an N12 notice of termination seeking
termination of the tenancy
for the purpose of residential occupation by the Landlord and his spouse.
 
2.    The termination date in the notice (the “N12 notice”)
was September 30, 2021. The Landlord has met the 60 day notice requirement of s.48(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the “Act”), and I am
satisfied that the Landlord has met the declaration requirement of s.72(1)(b)
of the Act.
 
3.    The parties acknowledged that a credit of one month’s
rent was provided to the Tenant for the month of August 2021. I am prepared to
accept that a rent credit may satisfy the requirement of one month’s worth of
compensation under s. 48.1 of the Act, as the rent abatement was for a period
of time prior to the termination date set out in the N12 notice; and the
Landlord communicated prior to the termination date in the notice of
termination his intention to provide
a rent abatement in satisfaction of the one month’s compensation requirement
under section 48.1.




 
 
 
4.   
For the Landlord’s application to
succeed, the Landlord must satisfy the “good faith” requirement set out in
subsection 48(1) the Act. I am satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that
the Landlord has satisfied this requirement.
 
 
5.    A leading case involving a landlord’s own use
application is Salter v. Beljinac, 2001 CanLII 40231 (ON SCDC). In Salter, the landlord applied for an
order terminating the tenancy on the ground that he required possession of the
rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation by his adult son and the
son’s family. The Member granted the application. On appeal, the Divisional
Court made the following comments regarding s. 48’s good faith requirement:
 
In my view, [s. 48] charges the finder of fact with the task of
determining whether the landlord’s professed intent to want to reclaim the unit for a family member is genuine, that is, the notice to terminate the tenancy is made in good
faith. The alternative finding of fact would be that the landlord does not have
a genuine intent to reclaim the unit for the purpose of residential occupation by a
family member…
 
6.   
The case law
establishes that the test for good faith is determined by considering the
intention of the person named in the application. In this case, the Landlord and his spouse, Suzane El Rass
(“SR”).
 
7.   
The rental
complex is a 5-bedroom house, built in the early 1900s. The Landlord testified
that his family currently lives in a 900 sq ft condominium. He purchased the
property in May 2021 with the
intention of renovating it and moving into the entire house with his spouse,
his 3-year-old daughter and potentially more children in the future. He testified that the residential complex
is in a nice neighbourhood, has a backyard and is across the street from his
daughter’s school.
 
8.   
SR also testified
that the residential complex is the preferred place for their family since they
are hoping to expand their family in the near future, and the added space would
also be helpful since they work from home. The Landlord and SR were quite
knowledgeable about the property and its limitations. They acknowledged that the building will require some work once
they move in. Currently the building does not have air conditioning but is
structurally sound. According to the
Landlord, the residential complex is liveable while renovations are undertaken.
 
9.   
The Tenant
contested the Landlord’s good faith. On
cross-examination it was revealed that the Landlord owns another property in Toronto’s
Clarence neighbourhood. The Landlord indicated
that he intends to sell this property
and move into the residential




 
complex since
the residential complex is in his preferred neighbourhood and is the house
better suited for his family.
 
10. I am satisfied on a balance of
probabilities that the Landlord, in good faith, requires possession of the
rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation by the Landlord and SR. The Landlord and SR were both very
credible witnesses and appeared to be sympathetic to the Tenant’s situation. In this regard, they testified that they
helped the Tenant by giving him a cell phone and driving him to view other
apartments. Overall, I found the Landlord and SR’s testimony believable and am
satisfied with their expressed intent.
 
Section 83
 
11.
Section 83 requires that I
consider all the circumstances in the case, including the Tenant’s
and the Landlord’s situations, to determine if it would be appropriate to delay
or deny eviction in the form of section 83 relief.
 
12. The Tenant Philip Thong testified
that he moved into the rental unit in 2009 and was previously living in a
shelter. He does not have a car and
relies upon ODSP.
 
13.
The Tenant also
produced medical documentation showing he has trouble moving and the stress
could exacerbate his medical condition. He
is familiar with the neighbourhood and relies upon the tenant in room #1 for
companionship.
 
14.
The Tenant fears
he will not be able to afford another place to live given the current rental climate.
 
15. The Landlord indicated that he would
not be opposed to a delayed eviction date, and suggested January 31, 2022. While the Landlord’s current living
situation is not ideal for working from home and a growing family, the Landlord
does at least have somewhere to live and thus I find it would present minimal
hardship or unfairness to the
Landlord to delay eviction even longer than the proposed date of January 31,
2022. The delayed eviction date would
provide additional time for the Tenant to find housing and hopefully minimize
the stress in the relocation and at the same time, enable the Landlord and his
family to fulfill their long-term housing goal.
 
16.
Accordingly, I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Act and find that it
would not be unfair to postpone the eviction until
May 31, 2022 pursuant to subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act.




 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.    
The tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenant
is terminated, as of
May 31, 2022. The Tenant must move out of the rental unit on or before
May 31, 2022.
 
2.    
If the unit is not vacated
on or before May 31, 2022, then starting June 1,
2022, the Landlord may file
this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the eviction may
be enforced.
 
3.    
Upon receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give
vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after June 1, 2022.
 
 
February 2, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Peter Nicholson
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor
Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section
81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires
on December 1, 2022 if the order has not been filed on or before this
date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial
jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.

