Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
TSL-21672-21

Citation:	Wilstar Management Ltd. v Patel, 2022 CanLII 57941 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq303>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TSL-21672-21
 
 



In the matter
of:


2904, 24 MABELLE AVENUE TORONTO ON M9A4X8


 




Between:


Wilstar Management Ltd.


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Yash
  Patel


Tenant



 
 
 
Wilstar
Management Ltd. (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy
and evict Yash Patel (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant,
another occupant of the rental
unit or a person the Tenant permitted in the residential complex has seriously impaired
the safety of any person. The
Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the Tenant remained in the unit
after the termination date.
 
This application
was heard by videoconference on August 3, 2021. The Landlord was represented by the Property Manager,
Ryan Gibson, and by their Legal Representative, David Rubin. The
Tenant attended and was legally represented by Shibil Siddiqi.
 
George Ancuta
attended as a witness for the Landlord Neil Patel attended as a witness
for the Tenant.
 
 
Determinations:
 
 
1.     This application is based on a non-voidable
Notice of Termination (N7) alleging that the behaviour of the Tenant or someone
visiting or living with the Tenant has seriously impaired the safety of another
person and this behaviour occurred in the residential complex. The allegation is the Tenant’s guest threw
garbage down a garbage chute which had been closed off by the Landlord for repair, and that this garbage missed
hitting a contractor who was doing the repairs at the bottom of garbage
chute. The N7 had a termination date
of May 17, 2021, and was served on the Tenant on April 24, 2021 by sliding it
under the Tenant’s door.
 
2.    
RG is the Property
Manager of the 34 floor, 540-unit building, responsible for the day to day
operations including maintenance and repairs.
RG gave oral testimony that the garbage
chute was closed
to all tenants, on all floors, while
work was being
completed in the compactor
room, where the garbage chute ended.




 
 
 
3.    
Tenants were notified,
in advance of the closure, by an email blast on April 14, 2021 through the
tenant portal, by posting signage on the communal bulletin board in the lobby, and by placing
signs on the access door of each garbage chute.
In addition to the
signage, the door to garbage chute was screwed shut at the doorknob.
 
4.    
RG introduced a video taken by security
camera on the 29th floor. A male, later identified as the Tenant’s guest Neil
Patel, is observed leaving apartment 2904, carrying three small bags and
walking to the garbage chute, removing the screw, entering the garbage chute
room, then exiting and replacing screw.
 
5.    
GA testified he was
working in the compacter room. His
work included doing drywall in the compactor room. The work required him to be directly beside and under the
garbage chute. When the bags of garbage came down
the chute, GA indicated he had just moved
from working inside the actual garbage chute “2 minutes” prior. GA also testified he had worked in the
compacter room for 4 to 5 days, and this was the only instance when garbage
came down the chute.
 
6.    
GA identified the
garbage which fell to the compactor room from two photos, and it appears to be the same bags NP
carried to the chute room from the Tenant’s apartment.
 
7.    
Although the TTR sought
to take issue the colour, font size, wording, language and graphics contained
in the posted notices, I am satisfied
the notices clearly
communicated the closure of the garbage chutes to the tenants. .
 
8.    
There was discussion about
the contents of the garbage
bags, specifically whether
or not a glass bottle was
part of the garbage, but I am not concerned by this. Whether or not the bags contained something that mght hurt someone,
in the absence of the suggestion
something was placed there deliberately to cause harm, the contents of the
garbage are not the issue.
 
9.    
The Tenant and the
Tenant’s guest do not deny putting the garbage down the garbage chute. YP gave oral testimony that he does not remember receiving
notice of the closure of the chute, and that, since the beginning of the
pandemic, there have been “tons” of emails from the Landlord, many of which ended up in his Spam folder.
Further, YP stated he enters the building through the
garage and bypasses the lobby, so he did not see the notice posted on the
community bulletin board. He did note
he had seen other tenants using the garbage chute “recently”
 
10.  This is not a mens rea issue, intent is not the
test. The parties agree the garbage
chute was used by NP. I am satisfied
the Landlord made reasonable attempts to notify the tenants about the closure
of the garbage room. I am also
satisfied the Tenant was oblivious to the closure, and that he failed to let NP know before
he took the garbage out.
 
11.  
The real question is
whether or not the actions of NP were a “serious impairment of safety.”
In order to be successful on this ground, the Landlord must establish
that the effect of the occupant’s actions
threatens the well being or physical integrity
of another




 
person to such a degree that termination of the tenancy is
reasonable in order to ensure the safety of others. In other words, have the occupant’s actions put someone at
serious risk of physical harm? Not
every risk of physical harm to another will meet the test, as the impairment of safety must be serious:
see TSL-76716-16 at para. 16, citing TSL-12167- 11 at para. 11.
 
12. 
Under this section the
use of the word serious implies weighty, grave or momentous conduct. The conduct must have a substantial
negative effect on a person’s
well being or the risk of
same: see NOL-08606-12 at para. 15.
 
13.  The Tenant’s guest’s
action placed others at risk. The act of throwing
the garbage down the closed chute risked the safety of
a person working below. While I
appreciate the household garbage as described by the Tenant was unlikely to hurt anyone, the act itself represents a risk of serious harm
and the idea that the content of the garbage, or the absence of a hard hat
mitigates the risk is immaterial.
 
Relief form eviction
 
14.  Both RG and YP made reference to an apology
sent by the Tenant to the Landlord on April
20. I believe YP was truly remorseful about the incident
and sought to convey that remorse to the Landlord.
 
15.  At the time of the incident YP had been a tenant
for 3 years. RG was not aware of any
other complaints regarding the Tenant. YP
expressed a wish to stay in the rental unit.
 
16.  Having considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with
subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and
find that it would not be unfair to grant
relief from eviction
subject to the condition(s) set out in this order
pursuant to subsection 83(1)(a) and 204(1) of the Act
 
It is ordered that:
 
 
1.    
The Landlord’s application to evict the Tenant is
denied on the condition that for a period
of twelve months from the date of issue of this order, the Tenant, persons
living with the
Tenant, or the Tenant’s
guests comply with the written
notices regarding safety
and security issued by the Landlord.
 
2.    
If the Tenant fails to
comply with the condition of paragraph 1, then the Landlord may apply under
section 78 of the Act for an order terminating the tenancy an eviction
the Tenant. The Landlord
must make the application within 30 days of the breach of condition
set out in paragraph 1 of this order.
 
3.    
The Tenant
shall also pay to the Landlord $186.00
for the cost of filing the application.




 
4.    








 
 
King




 


If the Tenant does not pay the Landlord the full amount
owing on or before December 12, 2021, the Tenant will start
to owe interest. This will be simple
interest calculated from December 13, 2021 at 2.00% annually on the balance
outstanding.
 
 
January 5, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Dawn
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

