Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-25
File number:	
TSL-11503-19

Citation:	TSL-11503-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 86564 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js1hc>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:


 
 
 
Order under Section 126
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
 
 
 
xxx and xxx (the 'Landlords') applied for an order permitting the rent
charged to be increased by more than the guideline for one or more of the
rental units in the residential complex.
 
This application was resolved by
written hearing. The Board received submissions from the Landlord’s Legal Representative, RM, on behalf of HW
and the Tenants’ Legal Representative, SP.
 
The Tenants’ Legal Representative
SP filed reply submissions on December 22, 2020 which was unsolicited by the
Board. On January 4, 2021, the Landlord emailed the Board and requested the
opportunity to respond to the Tenants’ further submissions. The Board issued an interim order on October
28, 2021 granting the Landlord’s request and giving it until November 26, 2021
to file any sur-reply. The Landlord’s sur-reply submission was received by the Board
on November 17, 2021. Further
reply submissions from the Tenants
were received by the Board on November 18, 2021. These
submissions have not been considered as my interim order of October 28, 2021
specifically directed that the Landlord may provide a sur-reply to further
submissions which were provided by the Tenants. As these further Tenant
submissions were not solicited by the Board and no advance request was made by
the Tenants’ Legal Representative prior to providing further
written submissions, no further submissions have been considered
by the Board.
 
It is determined that:
 
1.                 
The Landlord justified a rent increase
above the guideline
because of capital expenditures.
 
2.                 
The maximum rent increase
above the guideline
because of capital expenditure is 2.61%.




This increase is for the capital
expenditure for Window
Replacement.
 
3.                 
The Landlord is seeking
an order permitting it to raise
the rent above the annual
guideline amount because it has incurred costs for the replacement of
windows at the residential complex.
 
4.                 
The residential complex is made up of 51 units, but the application indicates the costs
for the window replacement should be calculated based on 43 units.
 
5.                 
The Landlord claims the windows at the residential complex were original
to the building which was built in 1955 and that the windows were
single pane, drafty, and leaking. The Landlord
claims the window
replacement was necessary to protect or restore the physical
integrity of the residential complex and to promote energy conservation
pursuant to paras. 126(7)(a) and (e)
of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the “Act”).
 
6.                 
I
am satisfied the Landlord has established that this capital
expenditure is an eligible
capital expenditure and satisfies the requirements of s.126(7) of the Act because the capital expenditure
is necessary to restore the physical integrity of the residential complex and
it promotes energy conservation.
 
7.                 
Therefore, the above guideline increase
is granted for this application.
 
Preliminary Issues
 
Amendments to application
 
Amendment #1 – Removal
of unit from the application
 
8.                 
Email correspondence from the
Tenants received by the Board on December 4, 2020 requested the removal of unit xxx at
xxx this unit was not identified on the Information About Rental Units (“RUI”) form. Written
Correspondence received from the Landlord received by the Board on December 18,
2020 notes the Landlord requests the removal of this unit from the application.
Therefore, the application is amended on consent to reflect the removal of unit
xxx at xxx.
 
9.                 
The Tenants requested further
units be removed
from the application because these units were not served with the documents
for the hearing, or the units are vacant.1
 
10.             
The Landlord submits these units were not included
in the application at the time it was
submitted.
 
 
 
 












1 Tenants’ submissions received
by the Board on December
4, 2020 requesting the removal
of units 5, 103, 108, 303
at 12 Rusholme Dr. and units 102, 202, 203, 305, at page 1.




Analysis
 
11.             
The Landlord is correct. The units
noted by the Tenants were not included in the application as confirmed by the Schedule
of Parties, attached
to the Certificate of Service dated October 21, 2020 (received
by the Board on October 28, 2020).
 
Amendment#2 – Request to add corporate name to application Tenants’ Submission
12.             
The Tenants request a dismissal of
the application. The Tenants submit RSL transferred the ownership of the
properties at  XXX. to “XXX” on May 19, 2019.
The Tenants submit
the application was filed in the
name of RSL on November 19, 2019 and that this was not the Landlord/owner at the time the application was filed. The Tenants oppose an amendment to the application because the application was not
amended prior to the notice of hearing being served on the Tenants pursuant to
Rule 15 of the Board’s rules. The Tenants lastly submit to allow an amendment
would greatly prejudice the Tenants and the Landlord ought to have known that
the application should have been filed in the actual
name of the Landlord/owner.
 
Landlord’s
reply
 
13.             
The Landlord concedes that RSL was
the registered owner of the residential complex up to May 29, 2019 and a name
change was initiated to xxx. The Landlord submits all the shareholders remained
unchanged, only the name changed. The Landlord submits the asset management
company is SGPHI and they were unaware of the name change at the time the application was submitted
because their internal database had not been updated with the ownership
information. The Landlord submits RSL meets the definition of a Landlord under
the Act and requested the application be amended to add xxx as a party to the
application as this corporate entity is the registered owner of the complex
and, therefore, the Landlord. The Landlord submits a dismissal of the
application would severely prejudice the Landlord. The Landlord relies on Rule
A3 of the Social Justice Tribunals Ontario Common Rules and Rule 1.6 of the
Board’s Rules.
 
Analysis
 
14.             
The application is amended to add xxx.
to the application as a Landlord. I find a dismissal of the application would significantly prejudice the Landlord which I find outweighs any prejudice to the Tenants.
I agree with the Landlord’s reliance on Rule A3 of the Social Justice
Tribunals Ontario Common Rules. The rules are to be interpreted in a matter
which promotes fairness
and applied to ensure that procedures and directions are proportionate. Rules
are not to be interpreted in a technical manner. Further, Rule 1.6 of the
Board’s Rules allows the Board to add parties as it considers




appropriate and amend
any filing.
 
Tenants’ objection
to a written hearing
 
15.             
The Tenants submit that a written
hearing denies them the opportunity to participate in a
case management hearing to clarify and potentially negotiate or resolve the
issues in dispute. The Tenants submit that a written hearing is one-sided and
is detrimental to the Tenants because the Act favors the Landlord regarding
capital expenditures.
 
16.             
The Tenants submit that an order
has not yet been issued
for the first
above guideline rent increase for TSL-90927-17 as it was
adjourned. The Tenants submit further written submissions for the second above
guideline rent increase application interferes with the
Tenants’ legal rights.
 
17.             
On November 17, 2020, the Board
provided email correspondence to the parties which advised that a Member
from the Board would review
the Tenants objection to a written hearing and if the Member agrees
with the Tenants,
then the matter
would be converted to an oral hearing.
 
Analysis
 
18.             
The Board’s authority to determine
if the format of a hearing will be in writing is found in s. 25.1 of the Statutory Power and Procedures Act (“SPPA”).
Further, in accordance with Guideline 14 of the Board’s Guidelines, the Board may determine that the issues can
be decided through a written hearing. I disagree with the Tenants’ submission
that a written hearing is one-sided, and the Act favors the Landlord with
regards to capital expenditures. The Landlord must meet its onus in
establishing whether the claimed capital expenditure meets the definition of a
capital expenditure pursuant to s. 18 of Ontario Regulation 516/06 (“O.
Reg. 516/06”) and if it is an eligible expenditure pursuant to s. 126(7) of the
Act.
 
19.             
Whether the hearing is oral or
written, the applicant, which is the Landlord in this case provides their
submissions and evidence first. The other party has an opportunity to respond
and the Landlord can file a final reply. There is no difference to this format
whether the hearing proceeds orally
or in writing. While a case management hearing did not take
place, I do not find that procedural fairness has been denied to the Tenants
because a decision on the merits will be determined at a hearing. For all the
above reasons, I do not find there has been a denial of procedural fairness
by proceeding with a
written hearing.
 
20.             
The Board’s records confirm that
an order has not been issued for TSL-90927-17, an application for an above guideline
rent increase filed on November 24, 2017. The claimed capital expenditures are
unrelated to the window replacement claimed in this application. However, the
filing of a prior unrelated application does not preclude the Board from reaching a determination on this application just because it was filed after the previous application.




Issue#1 – Validity of N1 notices Tenants’ submission
21.             
The Tenants submit the registered
business name which appears on the N1
notices they received on behalf of the Landlord are not the correct business
name as registered with the Ministry of Government Services. The Tenants allege
further defects with the N1 notices including the person/legal representative
who completed the forms, when they were served, frequency in which the N1 notices
were served, and the amounts
included.
 
22.             
The Tenants submit if the
Landlord’s application is not dismissed, the rent increase should be limited to 2.2% as outlined in the letter
dated August 31, 2020 from xxx
on behalf of the Landlord.
 
Landlord’s
reply
 
23.             
The Landlord submits that the Board has no jurisdiction to determine any issues
concerning the legality of N1 Notices within the context of this application.
 
Analysis
 
24.             
The Landlord is correct. The
Board’s jurisdiction to grant the Landlord’s claimed amounts in this
application falls within s.126 of the Act and s.18(1) and 22(1) of O. Reg.
516/06. The validity of N1 notices issued
by the Landlord cannot be considered as part of this
application. The Tenants
may file their own application to address any issues relating to illegal rent charges.
 
Issue#2 – Tenants not provided with adequate information to dispute the application
Tenants’ reply
25.             
The Tenants submit they requested information from the Landlord
to be able to file an
informed submission and that the information was not produced by the Landlord.
 
Landlord’s
reply
 
26.             
The Landlord submits it has
provided all evidence of costs in the form of invoices and evidence of payment in the form of cancelled cheques. The Landlord
submits the invoice details were provided in the
Capital Expenditures: Additional Details Summary Sheet. The Landlord submits
the rent details were provided on the RUI form. The Landlord submits upon
receiving the request from the Tenants’ legal representative for a copy of the window
replacement contract, it was promptly provided. The Landlord submits
other requests made by the Tenants’ legal representative were not
relevant to this application.




Analysis
 
27.             
The Tenants have not identified what specific information was requested from the
Landlord but not provided. I accept the Landlord’s submission which notes the
documentation which
was produced to the Tenants.
I therefore find the Tenants
had the necessary information
to be able to properly respond to this application.
 
Issue#3 – Contract for the window
replacement is not valid/enforceable
Tenants’ submission
28.             
The Tenants submit the contract
for the window replacement was between xxx and RWDS and the invoices and insurance certificate submitted with the
application are from a company named RAWD. The Tenants submit there is no
contract with the Landlord named on the application, RSL and RA and there was no documentation produced which supports
that RS  had the authority to
subcontract the work to RA. The Tenants’ position is that RA not legally
authorized to perform the work and therefore the Tenants should not have to pay
for the work.
 
Landlord’s
reply
 
29.             
The Landlord submits that at some
point between the issuance of the quotation and the contract for the work and
the issuance of the invoices for the work performed, the contractor’s name changed. The name changed
from RWDSI to RAWDI. The
Landlord submits this has no bearing on the
application and the enforceability of the contract is moot as the work
has been completed.
 
30.             
The Landlord submits that
Starlight signed the work agreement (“contract”) on behalf of RSL who was the registered owner at the time the contract was signed,
June 11, 2018.2 The Landlord submits that xxx as the asset manager
was authorized to enter into the agreement on behalf of RSL. The Landlord
submits that a contract is not a required document pursuant to s. 22(1) of O.
Reg. 516/06. The Landlord submits that invoices and proof of payment that the
invoices were paid in full were submitted as required.
 
Analysis
 
31.             
I accept the Landlord’s submission
that RWADSL underwent a legal name change
to RAWDI after the quotation and contract were issued but
prior to when the invoices for the window
 












2 Tab 10, copy of work agreement for window replacement at XXX, included
with Tenants written submissions, at page 9.




replacement were issued. I also accept
that S was the asset
manager for RSL and as such, was authorized to sign
the contract on behalf of RSL the owner of the residential complex.
 
32.             
I find a contract is not required
in order for the Landlord to claim incurred costs for a capital expenditure.
Section 22(1) 2. of O. Reg. 516/06 stipulates that an application for an
incurred capital expenditure must include evidence of all costs and payments
for amounts claimed. Further, this section stipulates details about each
invoice and payment for each claimed capital expenditure must be included on a
form approved by the Board. The details about the rents for all units in the
residential complex affected by the capital expenditure must also be provided. I find the Landlord has satisfied these requirements as the invoice amounts match the Capital
Expenditures: Additional Details summary sheet form which is a form approved by
the Board. The Landlord also produced copies of the cancelled cheques which
cleared the bank to support proof of payment. An RUI form detailing the rents
for the units affected by the capital expenditure were produced.
 
Issue#4 – Security services
are a conflict of interest Tenants’ submission
33.             
The Tenants submit there were no
subcontractors listed in the Schedule “C” of the contract and therefore any
subcontractor performing security services at the residential complex while the
work was being performed, was unauthorized. The Tenants further submit that
Regal Systems having security services to oversee their own work being
performed is a conflict of interest. The Tenants submit that the Landlord is therefore not entitled to the claimed costs for
security services in the amount of $3,390.00.
 
Landlord’s
reply
 
34.             
The Landlord submits that verbal
authorization was provided to RS to retain subcontractors to provide security
and perform plaster
and painting repairs.
The Landlord submits that the security
services were provided
by Active Security,
a company unrelated to RS. The Landlord submits
that Active Security ensured that only authorized contractors entered the
rental units when the windows were being replaced and that the amount of
$3,390.00 was authorized by S.
 
Analysis
 
35.             
I
find the security
services in the amount of $3,390.00 inclusive of HST were a necessary and reasonable expense to
perform the window replacement in the rental units. As such, the claimed cost
is an eligible expense. I accept that S verbally authorized RS to subcontract
the security services to Active Security and as they are two separate
companies, I do not find it is a conflict of interest. Therefore, the Landlord
is entitled to this claimed cost.




Issue#5 – Claimed cost of $3,600.00
not supported Tenants’
submission
36.             
The Tenants submit the Landlord should not be entitled to its claimed cost
for item CO#1 in the amount of $3,600.003 as no documentation was produced for this additional charge. The Tenants submit the tiles in unit XXX at XXX were
never replaced, despite the Operations Manager being made aware of the damages.
The Tenants further submit that it is unknown which units were allegedly
repaired.
 
Landlord’s
reply
 
37.             
The Landlord submits the $3,600.00
claimed cost is for the replacement of broken window ledge tiles for some of the windows
in the residential complex and was not included in the original scope of
work.
 
38.             
The Landlord submits that repairs
were completed to unit xxx at xxx in December
2020 after the Landlord received
the Tenants’ further
reply submission and the
Tenant has since moved out of this unit.
 
Analysis
 
39.             
I accept the Landlord’s submission
that the repairs were completed in December 2020 to address the cracked window
ledge tiles at unit xxx. I find the Landlord is entitled to the claimed cost of $3,600.00 included in the application. I accept it was necessary to replace the
broken window ledge tiles for some of the windows at the residential complex
and that the incurred expense did not form part of the original scope of work.
 
Issue#6 – Adequate information about the work performed was not provided
to the Tenants
 
40.             
The Tenants submit that no details
were provided to confirm how many windows were actually installed, the type of
windows installed, which units received paint/plaster repairs, how many
security guards were used, no time sheets provided for security guards, and the invoices
from RA only include the contract price, progress
invoice amount, and holdback amount.
 
Landlord’s
reply
 
41.             
The Landlord submits it has produced
all documentation required
pursuant to s. 22(1) of
O. Reg 516/06. The Landlord
further submits a copy of the contract produced to the Tenants identifies 82
windows at XXX and 66 windows at XXX are to be replaced. The Landlord submits
security services were used to facilitate the replacement of the windows
and the necessary paint/plaster repairs
were performed. The Landlord submits it has produced documentation which supports that the work meets the


3 Landlord’s evidence, amount
claimed on invoice
#1, at page 3.




definition of a capital
expenditure and that the work completed is an eligible
capital expenditure.
 
Analysis
 
42.             
I find the contract for the work
identifies the replacement of 148 windows in the residential complex. The
Tenants’ submissions note “The Tenants acknowledge that the new windows
are double glazed/paned…”.4 I find this evidence supports
that the Tenants were aware of the type of windows
installed. The Tenants have not produced evidence which supports that a
different number of windows were replaced from what was set out within the
contract. I have already determined that the Landlord produced sufficient
documentation pursuant to the requirements set out within s. 22(1) of O. Reg.
516/06.
 
Issue#7 – Negligence and poor workmanship Tenants’ submission
43.             
The Tenants submit the workers
were negligent and damaged the areas surrounding the windows during the
installation. The Tenants submit the
Landlord should not be entitled to the claimed
costs in the amount of $13,842.50
including HST for the paint and plaster
repairs. The Tenants submit that there were rental units which were not
returned to their original state as stipulated within
section 5.1 of the RS contract. The Tenants
submit that broken glass was found inside their units following the window
installation and that the paint and plaster repairs were not performed to the
damaged areas as claimed, and that there are issues with condensation and mould
since the new windows were replaced.5 Pictures
were produced by the Tenants
showing damage to the plaster
on the walls and broken window ledge tiles for units XXX and XXX at XXX.6
The Tenants submit the repairs to their units have not been completed.
 
44.             
The Tenants submit that the
Landlord provided notices of entry to enter the following units at XXX on December 14, 2020: Unit numbers XXX. The
Tenants submit no repairs were performed to their units, only photographs were
taken.
 
Landlord’s
reply
 
45.             
The Landlord submits it reviewed
its records and that maintenance requests were received from unit XXX at XXX. and the Landlord
confirmed with this Tenant
on November 4, 2021 that there are no issues with this unit. Regarding unit XXX
at XXX, the Landlord submits repairs
were performed to this unit and the unit was further inspected following receipt
of the Tenants submissions and no deficiencies were found. The Landlord
inspected unit XXX at XXX on November 3, 2021 and did not visually see any
damage to the windows. The Landlord submits the Tenant












4 Tenants submissions, section
H, part 5), at page
11.
5 Tenants submissions noting issuing following
window installation at XXX
6 Tenants submissions, at tabs 16-1-16-4, 17-1, and 17-2.




advised that water penetration
occurs during a heavy rainfall. The Landlord and the contractor from RA attended
the rental unit on November 12, 2021 and RA advised a section of the window
would require removal and re- installation. The Tenant advised the Landlord on
November 17, 2021 that the Tenant would be available
on November 24, 2021 to have the repairs performed with the Tenant present.
 
Analysis
 
46.             
I
am able to consider serious
ongoing maintenance breaches
pursuant to s. 126 (12) of the Act with respect to this application
The details regarding the damage noted by the Tenants in tabs 11 and 14 identify
the rental unit but do not provide any dates for when the alleged damage
occurred. The issues relating to broken glass most likely occurred following
the installation and most likely has been resolved. Therefore, I do not consider the broken glass to be an
ongoing serious maintenance breach.
 
47.             
I also find the other allegations
provided by the Tenants do not form a serious maintenance breach. For example,
the Tenant in unit xxx at xxx submits there is so much condensation inside the
windows and black mould everywhere and that he did not complain and performed
the repairs himself.7 The Tenant in unit xxx at xxx submits the
window panels do not come off, making it difficult to clean one side of the
windows, which has inhibited her view.8 I find this is not a serious
ongoing maintenance breach. The Tenant in unit xxx at xx alleges that fence
posts and a chain were removed from the green space in the front of her
basement unit and people and dog walkers
walk right outside
her window.9 I do not find this is a serious ongoing maintenance breach. Confirmation is provided from the
Tenant in unit xxx at xxx that the window leaks were repaired.10
From this evidence and the Landlord’s
reply submission, I accept the are no issues in this unit.
Therefore, I find the
Tenants have not established how the workmanship relating to the installation
of the windows has caused a serious ongoing maintenance breach with the units
identified by the Tenants.
 
Issue #8 – The two buildings do not form a complex Tenants’ submission
48.             
The Tenants submit it is not correct that these two buildings have always been treated as one complex. The Tenants submit they
should not have to pay for repairs to a building they do not have access to or
derive a benefit from. The Tenants submit treating the buildings as separate
buildings would result in a lower rent increase for the Tenants in each
building.
 












7 Tenants submissions, tab 14, at page 1.
8 Ibid, at page 2.
9 Tenants submissions, tab 11, at page 2.
10 Ibid, at page 3.




Landlord’s
submission
 
49.             
The Landlord submits since 2001, this complex which contains two buildings has been
treated as a complex by the Board and its predecessor, the Ontario Rental
Housing Tribunal. The Landlord submits the properties share a parking lot, one
superintendent, and is managed as one entity with a single bank account.
 
Analysis
 
50.             
Pursuant to s. 2(1) of the Act
“residential complex” is defined in part as a building or related group of
buildings. Given that the two buildings here share a parking lot, they clearly
meet the definition of a residential complex. I find the Tenants have not
established why these two building
which share a parking lot, the same superintendent,
and are managed under one bank account should not qualify as a residential complex.
The wording of s. 126(1)
of the Act says the Landlord can apply for an above guideline
rent increase for any or all of the units in a “residential complex”.
Therefore, this allegation is dismissed.
 
Issue#9 - Installation of the windows
was not necessary Tenants’ submission
51.             
The Tenants submit no
engineering/architectural documentation was produced by the Landlord which supports that the window replacement was necessary to protect or restore
the residential complex.
 
Analysis
 
52.             
The Landlord did not provide any submissions on this point.
I accept that the window replacement was necessary pursuant
to s.126(7)(a) and (e) of the Act. I accept the
Landlord’s claim that the windows
required replacement because they were leaking and were the original windows
from when the building was constructed in 1955. I also accept the replacement windows were
double-pane glass as conceded by the Tenants and that they promote energy
efficiency. The Tenants have not produced evidence which challenges the age or
condition of the original windows as claimed by the Landlord.
Therefore, this allegation
has not been further considered.
 
Issue#10 – General maintenance decreased at the residential properties Tenants’ submission
53.             
The Tenants submit there is litter
in the parking lot, nobody tends to the lawn or garden, the sidewalk in front
of the building is often not shoveled in the winter, the common areas are not as clean as they used to be, and the heat often
falls below 21 degrees despite the installation of the new windows.




Landlord’s
submission
 
54.             
The Landlord submits there
is a cleaning schedule in place and the complex
is maintained on a regular
basis. The Landlord submits these allegations raised by the Tenants do not
constitute a serious ongoing maintenance breach.
 
Analysis
 
55.             
I agree with the Landlord’s
submission that these allegations do
not rise to the level of a serious ongoing maintenance breach and therefore
cannot be considered with this application pursuant to s. 126(12).
The Tenants may wish to file their own application to address these issues.
 
Conclusion
 
56.             
I find the claimed capital
expenditure meets the definition of
a capital expenditure as set out
within s.18(1) of O. Reg. 516/06. The Landlord has incurred this eligible
capital expenditure that satisfies the requirements of 126(7)(a) and (e) of the Act.
Therefore, the above
guideline increase is granted for this application.
 
57.             
The Certificate of Service filed by the Landlord on October 28, 2020 indicates that some rental units
listed in the application were not served with the application and notice of
hearing. The Board shall therefore amend the application by removing these
rental units. As a result,
this order for a rent increase above the guideline
under section 126 of the Act does not apply to the following
units at xxx.
 
58.             
The weighted useful life for the capital expenditure is 15 years.
 
59.             
The first effective date of the rent increase above the guideline is January 1, 2020.
 
60.             
The Landlord or the Tenants shall pay to the other any sum of money that
is owed as a result of this
order within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.                 
The Landlord may increase
the rents charged
by 2.61% for the units
set out in Schedule
1.
 
2.                 
The percentage increase set out in paragraph 1 is to be taken within the time period
of January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020.
 
3.                 
The percentage increase set out in paragraph 1 may be taken in addition to the annual guideline in effect on the increase
date for the unit.
 
4.                 
The Landlord or the Tenants shall
pay to the other any sum of money that is owed as a result of this order within 120 days of
the date of this order.




5.                 
If the Tenant’s rent is increased
pursuant to the percentage increase ordered for capital expenditures and the same Tenant remains
in the unit after the expiration of the weighted useful life for capital expenditures, then the rent will be reduced. Refer to Schedule 3
for information about the date and amount of the rent reduction.
 
6.                 
The annual guideline for 2020 is
2.2%.
 
 
 
 
January 25, 2022
Date Issued                                                                 Kimberly Parish
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
1st Floor,
15 Grosvenor Street Toronto, ON, M7A 2G6
Fax No: 416 - 326 - 9838
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234. Important Notes:
1.                 
The landlord may increase
the rent charged
by the ordered increase within
the time period specified if at least 12 months
have passed since the last rent increase or since the tenant moved in, and if
the landlord has given the tenant at least 90 days proper Notice of Rent
Increase. Any part of the ordered
increase that is not taken within the time period specified cannot be added to
subsequent rent increases in subsequent time periods.
 
2.                 
If the landlord has given
a Notice of Rent Increase for a rent increase that is
less than the ordered increase, the landlord may only take the rent
increase set out in the Notice.
 
3.                 
The ordered increase does not
affect tenants who moved into the complex on or after October 3, 2019. The landlord cannot
add the ordered
increase to the rents these tenants
pay.




File Number:
TSL-11503-19
Schedule 3 - Rent Reduction related
to Capital Expenditures
 
A.   
Date of Rent Reduction
 
If the Tenant’s rent is increased based on capital
expenditures during the period
2020 then:
 
The date of the rent
reduction will be the day
before:
•                    
the date of the Tenant’s first rent increase
under this order, plus
•                    
the number of years
for the weighted
useful life for capital expenditures for the unit (set
out in the order).
 
Example:
If the Tenant’s rent was increased on June 1, 2007 and the weighted
useful life for capital
expenditures is 10 years, then the rent will be reduced on May 31, 2017.
 
 
If the Tenant’s rent was not
increased based on capital expenditures during the period 2020 but was increased during the
later periods set out in the order then:
 
The date of the rent
reduction will be the day
before:
•                    
the First Effective Date of Rent Increase in this order,
plus
•                    
the number of years
for the weighted
useful life for capital expenditures for the unit (set
out in the order).
 
Example:
If
the first effective date of increase
in this order is April 1, 2007 and the weighted useful life for capital expenditures is 12 years,
then the rent will be reduced on March 31, 2019.
 
 
B.   
Amount of the Rent Reduction
 
If the Tenant’s rent is increased
by the total percentage increase
set out in this order
then: The rent must be reduced
by the total percentage increase set out in this order for capital expenditures.
 
If the Tenant’s rent is not increased by the total
percentage increase set out in this order then:
The rent must be reduced by an
amount determined in accordance with the prescribed rules which may be equal
to or less than the total percentage increase set out in this order for capital expenditures.
 
 
 
 
Schedule 3 - Page 1 of 1

