Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-07
File number:	
TSL-12193-19

Citation:	TSL-12193-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 56725 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq1cb>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:


 
 
 
Order under Section
126
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
 
 
 
TI (the 'Landlord') applied for an order permitting the rent charged
to be increased by more
than the guideline for one or more of the rental units in the residential
complex.
 
This application was resolved by written hearing.
No submissions were received from the
Tenants.
 
It is determined that:
 
1.                 
The Landlord
justified a rent increase above
the guideline because
of capital expenditures.
 
2.                 
The maximum
rent increase above the guideline
because of capital
expenditures is 0.71%. This
increase is for the following capital expenditures:
a.       Boiler Replacement
b.      Chimney
Liner
 
3.                 
The residential complex
consists of 30 units and the application notes 30 units are covered by the application. The Certificate of Service filed
by the Landlord on November 11, 2020 indicates that some rental
units listed in the application were not served with the application and notice of hearing. The
Board shall therefore amend the application by removing these rental units. As
a result, this order for a rent increase above the guideline under section 126
of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the “Act”) does not apply to the
following units: 3, 4, 5 and 18.
 
4.                 
Regarding the boiler replacement, the Landlord claims the previous
boiler was more than
20 years old, parts were rusted out and that the heat exchanger, refractory,
coils and gasket required replacement. The Landlord
submits the cost to replace these
components and repair the rusted out elements would exceed the cost of
purchasing a new boiler as




confirmed by the Landlord’s maintenance contractor, AM&SL. The
Landlord submits the new boiler system is more energy efficient because it runs
at an efficiency of 83% compared to the old boiler system which had an
efficiency of approximately 80%. The Landlord submits the work was necessary to
maintain the provision of the heating system and promotes
energy conservation. As such, the Landlord
claims it is an eligible capital expenditure under s.126(7)(c) and (e) of the
Act.
 
5.                 
Regarding
the chimney liner replacement for the new boiler, the Landlord submits the
existing chimney liner did not meet the required standards of the Canadian
Standards Association. The Landlord submits the chimney liner was replaced to
comply with the current code requirements for the operation of the new boiler.
The Landlord claims it is an eligible capital
expenditure under s.126(7)(b) and (c) of the Act because
the work was necessary to comply with safety
standards necessary for the Landlord to comply with 20(1) of the Act and to
maintain the provision of the heating system at the residential complex.
 
6.                 
The Landlord
submits that no rebates were received for any of the items claimed in this
application.
 
7.                 
The Landlord
has established that these are eligible capital
expenditures which satisfy the requirements of s.126(7) of the Act.
The claimed capital expenditures are necessary to maintain the provision of the
heating system, promote energy conservation, comply with 20(1) of the Act and to maintain the provision of the heating
system. Therefore, the above guideline increase is granted for
this application.
 
8.                 
The weighted
useful life for the capital
expenditures is as specified on Schedule 3.
 
9.                 
The first effective date of the rent increase above the guideline is March 1, 2020.
 
10.             
The Landlord
or the Tenants shall pay to the other any sum of money that is
owed as a result of this order within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
It is ordered
that:
 
1.                 
The Landlord
may increase the rents charged
by the percentage increases and within the time periods set out in Schedule 3.
 
2.                 
The percentage increase set out in Schedule
3 may be taken in addition to the annual guideline in effect on the increase
date for the unit.




3.                 
The Landlord
or the Tenants shall pay to the other any sum of money that is
owed as a result of this order within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
 
 
 
January 7, 2022
Date Issued                                                                 Kimberly Parish
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
1st Floor, 15 Grosvenor Street Toronto, ON, M7A 2G6
Fax No: 416 - 326 - 9838
 
If you have any questions
about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234. Important Notes:
1.                 
The landlord
may increase the rent charged
by the ordered increase within
the time period specified if at least 12 months
have passed since the last rent increase or since the tenant moved in, and if
the landlord has given the tenant at least 90 days proper Notice of Rent
Increase. Any part of the ordered
increase that is not taken within the time period specified cannot be added to
subsequent rent increases in subsequent time periods.
 
2.                 
If the landlord has given a Notice of Rent Increase
for a rent increase that is less than the
ordered increase, the landlord may only take the rent increase set out in the
Notice.
 
3.                 
The ordered increase
does not affect tenants who moved into the complex on or after December 2, 2019. The landlord cannot
add the ordered
increase to the rents these tenants
pay.




File Number: TSL-12193-19
Schedule 4 - Rent Reduction related to Capital
Expenditures
 
A.   
Date of Rent Reduction
 
If the Tenant’s
rent is increased based on capital expenditures during the period 2020 then:
 
The date of the rent reduction will be the day before:
•                    
the date of the Tenant’s first rent increase
under this order, plus
•                    
the number
of years for the weighted
useful life for capital expenditures for the unit (set
out in Schedule 3).
 
Example:
If the Tenant’s
rent was increased on June 1, 2007 and the weighted
useful life for capital
expenditures is 10 years, then the rent will be reduced on May 31, 2017.
 
 
If the Tenant’s
rent was not
increased based on capital expenditures during the period 2020 but was increased during the
later periods set out in the order then:
 
The date of the rent reduction will be the day before:
•                    
the First Effective Date of Rent Increase in this order,
plus
•                    
the number
of years for the weighted
useful life for capital expenditures for the unit (set
out in Schedule 3).
 
Example:
If the first effective date
of increase in this order is April 1, 2007 and the weighted useful life for capital expenditures is 12 years,
then the rent will be reduced on March 31, 2019.
 
 
B.   
Amount of the Rent Reduction
 
If the Tenant’s
rent is increased by the total percentage increase set out in this order then: The rent must be reduced by the total percentage
increase set out in this order for capital expenditures.
 
If the Tenant’s rent is not increased by the total
percentage increase set out in this order then:
The rent must be
reduced by an amount determined in accordance with the prescribed rules which may be equal
to or less than the total percentage increase set out in this order for capital
expenditures.
 
 
 
 
Schedule
4 - Page 1 of 1

