Metadata:
Date:	2019-08-09
File number:	
TSL-05638-19
	TSL-05638-19
Citation:	TSL-05638-19 (Re), 2019 CanLII 134551 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/j6vw8>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/j6vw8
Content:


Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: TSL-05638-19
 











 
 
 

J S and B S (the 'Landlords')
applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict L T. M M (the 'Tenant')
because the Landlord requires possession of the rental unit for the purpose of
residential occupation. 
 
This application was heard in Toronto on July 16,
2019.
 
The Landlord and the Tenant and
the Tenant’s legal counsel M. D attended the hearing.
 
On the consent of the parties, B
S, a co-owner of the property was added as a Landlord.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    For the reasons that follow, the Landlords’
application is granted with an extended termination date of February 15, 2020.
Background
 
2.   
The rental unit is within a
residential complex consisting of two rental units above a commercial unit, all
of which are owned by the Landlords.
3.   
On March 15, 2019, the
Landlords served an N12 Notice of Termination (‘N12 notice’) on the Tenant. The
N12 notice states that the Landlords’ daughter intends to move into the unit
and occupy it for at least one year. The N12 notice seeks possession of the
rental unit for May 31, 2019.
4.   
Section 48.1 of the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (Act) requires the Landlords to provide
compensation to the Tenant in amount equal to one month’s rent where an N12
notice is served. The Landlords paid the required compensation by way forgiving
rent arrears for the month of May 2019.
5.   
The Landlord B S (‘BS’) testified that the Landlords
chose the Tenant’s unit for occupation by their daughter as it is the larger
unit that faces St. Clair Avenue and is less impacted by noise from the
commercial paint store below.
6.   
The Landlords live in Toronto and managed the
residential complex and worked in the adjoining commercial property until their
retirement in 2017.
7.   
The issue to be determined
by the Board is whether the Landlords have satisfied the “good faith”
requirement set out in subsection 48(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, S.O. 2006, c.17 (the 'Act') which provides: a landlord may, by
notice, terminate a tenancy if the landlord in good faith requires possession
of the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation by:
(c) the Landlord’s child
            The Landlord’s good faith intention
8.   
The onus is on the Landlords
to establish that the Landlords in good faith require the rental unit for the
purpose of residential occupation by their daughter. 
9.   
In the leading case law
involving a landlord’s own use application, S v. B, 2001 CanLII 40231 (ON SCDC), [2001], O.J. No. 2792
(Div. Ct.), the Divisional Court held that:
the test of good faith is genuine intention to
occupy the premises and not the reasonableness of the landlord’s proposal…
10. Thus, the Landlord must establish that their daughter genuinely
intends to move into the unit. The Court also found in S that the
Landlords’ motives are “largely irrelevant’.
11. The Landlords provided clear, consistent and uncontested evidence
that their daughter has moved back to Toronto to be closer to her family and
intends to move into the rental unit for at least one year. 
12. The Landlords provided government issued documentation demonstrating
that their daughter has relocated in Canada as of June 2019 and they advise
that she and her boyfriend are staying with the Landlords as they await the
opportunity to move into the rental unit.
13. When asked, the Tenant stated that she did not have reason to doubt
that the Landlords’ daughter wanted to move into the unit. She was not aware of
the daughter’s situation or whether she wished to live in the unit or not.
14. The Landlords testified that they are now
retired from the paint shop that they owned. They testified that they own the
property with no mortgage but have other debts and limits on their finances.
They testified that they wanted to help out their daughter and their only means
to do so is through providing her with the rental unit with an affordable rent.
15. The Tenant’s counsel submitted that the
Landlords’ plan to assist their daughter seems unrealistic as they have limited
income themselves and debts. 
16. The reasonableness of the Landlords’ intention
is not for the Board to determine, rather the consideration is the sincerity of
the intention for possession. The case of M v. M (1992), 1992 CanLII 7625 (ON SC), 9 O.R. (3d) 156
(Ont. Gen. Div.) stated:
A landlord need not establish that his requirement is
reasonable, only that he bona fide wanted and genuinely had the
immediate intention to occupy. 
17. I find therefore that the reasonableness of the
Landlords’ intention to assist their daughter in her move is not relevant to
the issues of intention or good faith. 
18. On the basis of the evidence before the Board, I have no reason to
doubt the truthfulness of the Landlords’ testimony or their good faith
intentions. I am therefore satisfied that the
Landlords, in good faith require possession of the rental unit for the purpose
of residential occupation.
Adverse Inference: Non-attendance of the Landlords’ daughter
19.  The Landlords’ daughter provided a
sworn statement stating that she intends to move into the unit for at least a
year. The daughter did not attend the hearing to provide viva voce
evidence. The Landlord JS testified that his daughter was out of the country
for work at the time of the hearing and this was not challenged.
20. Tenant’s counsel requested that I make a finding of adverse
inference because the Landlords’ daughter did not attend at the hearing to give
evidence as to her own intentions.
21. In P v. L, 2012 ONCA 755 (CanLII), the Court of Appeal for Ontario stated:
Drawing adverse inferences from failure to produce
evidence is discretionary.  The inference should not be drawn unless it is
warranted in all the circumstances.  What is required is a case specific
inquiry into the circumstances including, but not only, whether there was a
legitimate explanation for calling the witness, whether the witness was within
the exclusive control of the party against whom the adverse inference  is
sought to be drawn, or equally available to both parties and whether the
witness has key evidence to provide or is the best person to provide the
evidence in issue. 
22. I do not draw an adverse inference from the Landlords’ daughter not
attending at the hearing to testify.
23.
The Landlords provided a reasonable explanation
for the failure to call their daughter as a witness.  
24. The Act
does not require that the person moving into the unit give viva voce
evidence regarding their own intentions. There is no requirement that a
landlord call as a witness the intended occupant. Section 72 of Act does
require that the intended occupant provide an affidavit or sworn statement
respecting their intention to move into the rental unit, and the Landlord has
complied with this requirement
25.
Furthermore, I do not find that any procedural
unfairness arose as a result of the daughter not providing oral testimony. The
Landlords both provided oral testimony respecting the intended use of the
rental unit and were subject to cross-examination.
26. Further,
if the Tenant was of the believe that it was critical for her case to have the
Landlords’ daughter testify before the Board, the Tenant could have obtained a
summons to have her attend the hearing.
Section 83 considerations
27. Pursuant to section 83 of the Act, I am required
to consider all of the circumstances in the case including both parties’
situations to determine if it would be appropriate to grant relief.
28. The Tenant testified that she is 62 years old
and has lived in the rental unit for approximately 14 years. The Tenant’s
source of income is ODSP and after the payment of her monthly bills and
expenses she has minimal funds left.
29. The Tenant testified that she has connections in
the neighbourhood and her doctor is located close by. She gave evidence that
she suffers from Hepatitis C, high blood pressure and depression.
30. The Tenant submitted that her preference was to
stay in the rental unit. However, if her tenancy was terminated she testified
that she would require 6 months in order to save money for her first and last
months’ rent deposit and to find new housing.
31. The Landlords gave evidence that being able to
assist their children was the reason that they worked and saved and paid off
the mortgage on the property. They testified that their daughter has moved back
in anticipation of occupying the rental unit and is currently living with them
as they await the determination of their application.
32. I have considered all of the disclosed
circumstances in accordance with subsection 83(2) of the Act and find that it
would not be unfair to postpone the eviction until February 15, 2020, pursuant
to subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act. In balancing the interests and prejudice to
each of the parties, I find that it would not be unfair to provide the Tenant with
additional time to find alternative housing for herself which will take time
due to her health and financial limitations. Prejudice to the Landlord is
alleviated as their daughter is residing with them at this time and no evidence
was led as to an urgency for her to move out of the family home.
It is ordered that:
 
1.     
The tenancy between the
Landlords and the Tenant is terminated as of February 15, 2020. The Tenants
must move out of the rental unit on or before February 15, 2020.
2.     
If the unit is not vacated
on or before February 15, 2020, then starting February 16, 2020, the Landlords
may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so that the
eviction may be enforced.
3.     
Upon receipt of this order,
the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to give vacant possession of
the unit to the Landlord on or after February 16, 2020.
 
4.     
If the unit is not vacated
on or before February 16, 2020, the Tenants shall pay to the Landlord $23.01
per day for compensation for the use of the unit starting February 16, 2020 to
the date the Tenants move out of the unit.
 
 
August 9, 2019                                                                _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Nicola
Mulima
                                                                                            Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor
Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of
the Act, the part of this order relating to the eviction expires on December 1,
2019 if the order has not been filed on or before this date with the Court
Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that has territorial jurisdiction where the rental
unit is located.
 
 

