Metadata:
Date:	2019-03-15
File number:	
TSL-93207-18-RV; 
 TST-94747-18; 
 TSL-00082-18
	TSL-93207-18-RV; 	 TST-94747-18; 	 TSL-00082-18
Citation:	TSL-93207-18-RV (Re), 2019 CanLII 87035 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/j2gq5>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/j2gq5
Content:


Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TSL-93207-18-RV
 TST-94747-18
TSL-00082-18
 










 
 

A.A.D
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict J.E.S
(the 'Tenant') because the Landlord intends to convert the rental unit to a
non-residential use. The Landlord also claimed compensation for each day the
Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date (TSL-93207-18).
 
The
Landlord also applied for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict the Tenant because the Tenant did not pay the rent that
the Tenant owes (TSL-00082-18).
 
The
Tenant applied for an order determining that the
Landlord harassed, coerced, obstructed, threatened, and substantially
interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential
complex by the Tenant (TST-94747-18).
 
It was agreed by the parties that the applications would be heard
together, and TSL-00082-18 was ordered to be heard with the other applications. 

 
An interim order in relation to TSL-93207-18 was issued on July
31, 2018.  The Tenant requested a review of the order on August 31, 2018 and a
hearing for the request for review was granted and it was determined that the
review request would be heard along with the other two applications.
 
These
applications were heard together in Toronto on June 4, 2018, July 19, 2018,
October 4, 2018, and December 4, 2018.    
 
The
Landlord’s legal representative, D.C, the Landlord’s representative, P.C, and
the Tenant attended the hearing. C.L (CL),  C.P (CP), R.C (RC), and H.B (HB)
testified at the hearing.  
 
            
Determinations:
 
Request for Review -TSL-93207-18
 
1.      The
Tenant requested a review of the order issued on July 31, 2018.  An interim
order was issued TSL-93207-18-RV-IN, staying the order that was issued and directing
that at the hearing of the request to review the application, the following
issues should be considered:
                
I.       
Did
the Board seriously err in failing to consider the application of s. 83(3)(c)
of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) to the evidence before it
with respect to the Landlord’s demands for an illegal rent increase; 
              
II.       
Did
the Board seriously err in failing to consider the evidence of the Tenant with
respect to his complaints to governmental authorities concerning the commercial
unit below and by failing to consider the application of s. 83(3)(a) and (b) of
the Act to any findings of fact with respect to those complaints; and
             
III.       
Did
the Board seriously err by providing inadequate reasons with respect to the
relevance of the Tenant’s evidence of complaints to governmental authorities?
2.      For the
reasons provided at the hearing, the request for review was granted.  It was
agreed that all the evidence presented in support of the request for review
would be included and considered as evidence at the hearing.  The parties also
agreed that evidence would be heard from the Tenant to complete the evidence
for his application, as well as the evidence of the Landlord with respect to
the new L1 application.  
3.      The Tenant
also raised, in the course of the request for review, an application that I
recuse myself on the basis of bias, as it was my order that the Tenant had
reviewed.  The Tenant confirmed that he had no other issues to raise concerning
any bias I might have.  
4.      The test
for reasonable apprehension of bias is set out in the dissenting judgment of
Mr. Justice de Grandpre in Committee for Justice and Liberty et al. v. National
Energy Board et al., 1976 CanLII 2 (SCC), [1978] 1 SCR 369 at 394:
…the apprehension of bias must be a
reasonable one, held by reasonable and right minded persons, applying
themselves to the question and obtaining thereon the required information. In
the words of the Court of Appeal, that test is “what would an informed person,
viewing the matter realistically and practically – and having thought the
matter through – conclude. Would he think that it is more likely than not that
[the decision maker], whether consciously or unconsciously, would not decide
fairly.
5.      The onus
of demonstrating bias lies with the person who is alleging its existence. The
basis for a reasonable apprehension of bias must be substantial. “Mere
suspicion” is not enough, and a real likelihood or probability of bias must be
demonstrated. (R v S (RD) p. 531.)
6.       I do not
believe that an informed and reasonable person, viewing the matter
realistically and practically, and having thought the matter through would
conclude that there is a reasonable apprehension of bias in this case. Cases
are frequently reviewed, and the simple fact that the request to review will be
considered is not sufficient to raise a reasonable apprehension of bias.  The
other consideration is that it is most expedient for the Board to continue the
hearing of these matters together, without the time and effort of rehearing all
the evidence before another member.  As a result, I declined to recuse myself.
TSL-93207-18
7.      These
applications arise out of a long term tenancy of approximately 20 years in
which the Tenant has occupied a rental unit over top of a commercial unit that
the non-profit association used for its own cultural activities. In July 2017,
the Landlord rented its space to a commercial tenant, who commenced operation
of a licenced bar at the beginning of February 2018.  
8.      The
Landlord requires the rental unit to be vacated in order to convert it to a non-
residential use. I am satisfied that
the Landlord has taken all reasonable steps to confirm that the unit is
appropriately zoned and that there are no necessary permits to convert the
space to non-residential use. 
9.      The
Association’s President and Directors confirmed in their testimony that due to
financial pressures, the Association (by its membership at a duly convened
general meeting) passed a resolution to rent the store-front space in the lower
floor of the building to a commercial tenant and to take steps to terminate the
tenancy in the upper rental unit (occupied by the Tenant) and use the space for
their own Association purposes.
10.   The
Tenant raised issues at the hearing that he did not believe that the rental
unit space would be appropriate for the Association’s needs.  I do not see
these concerns as relevant to the issue to be determined, that is whether the
Landlord is converting the unit to non-residential use.  It is not necessary
for the Landlord to establish that the motives are “reasonable”, but only that
the Landlord is not providing the notice of termination in “bad faith”.
11.   The
Tenant also testified at the hearing that the Landlord, in a meeting at the
rental unit, on February 6, 2017, that the Directors of the Landlord explained that
they were experiencing financial pressures and asked him to consider an
extraordinary rent increase, which he declined to do.  The Tenant says that the
Notice of Termination was made in retaliation for his refusal of the rent
increase.  
12.   The
Tenant testified that at the meeting he was put under “extreme pressure for 90
minutes to sign a lease”, but the recording of the meeting which the Tenant
produced and selected parts to play at the hearing did not support his
description.  The meeting sounded in the recording as civil, and there was no
lease with a rent increase ever presented to the Tenant to sign.  
13.   I
do not see that the evidence supports the Tenant’s position that the
application was brought in retaliation.  It was the consistent evidence of directors
for the Landlord that upon their appreciation of the serious financial
pressures facing the Landlord, they began to look for options to manage the
position of the Association to continue its activities but be able to meet its
obligations.  One of the options considered was receiving an increase in rent
from the rental unit.  When that was refused by the Tenant, they considered
receiving rental income from their own space in the building.  This was the
option they ultimately took to the Association membership who provided their
majority approval for the plan. 
14.   The
Tenant contends that the proposal from the Landlord concerning the discussion
of a rent increase raises the issue of whether the Landlord should be denied
the eviction pursuant to section 83(3)(c) of the Act.  This section applies in
circumstances where there is a finding that the reason for the eviction is that
the tenant has attempted to secure or enforce his legal rights.  The evidence
does not support that the purported rent increase was ever more than a
suggestion to the Tenant as a way in which the Landlord not for profit
organization could address its urgent financial pressures.  The Tenant
indicated he refused to consider any proposal from the Landlord and the
Landlord took no further steps in relation to imposing any rent increase.  
15.   I
find, on a balance of probabilities, considering the evidence presented by both
parties, that the application is not being brought by the Landlord as a result
of the Tenant attempting to secure or enforce his legal rights, and that
section 83(3)(c) does not apply.
16.   The
Tenant testified that he complained to government agencies, specifically the City
of Toronto Municipal Licensing and Standards By-Law Enforcement Unit concerning
noise, and the Healthy Environments Enforcement Coordinator concerning the
smells of hookah smoking coming from the commercial unit below.  
17.   The
email the Tenant says he received from the Health Environments Enforcement
Coordinator states that they became aware of the premises on February 2, 2018. 
An excerpt of the email presented by the Tenant says that on February 3 and 10,
and March 10 and April 21, 2018 the commercial tenant was “found in violation
of the Municipal Code” and was ticketed, convicted and fined. Another excerpt
of the email says that on September 9 and October 11, 2018, the commercial
tenant was found in violation of the Municipal Code and that summons were
issued for “permit person to use hookah upon licensed premises”.  The Tenant
did not summons or call any witness from this government department, so there
was no direct evidence available on these complaints.
18.   The
Tenant also produced an email dated October 11, 2018 apparently from the Bylaws
Enforcement in which he was advised that a “noise charge” had been issued as a
summons to the commercial tenant, but that when they had visited the bar
recently, “the music was not an issue”.  Another email in evidence says the
first complaint received from the Tenant concerning noise was made to the
department on February 22, 2018.  The Tenant did not summons or call any
witness from this government department, so there was no direct evidence
available on these complaints.
19.   The
Notice of Termination served by the Landlord on the Tenant was dated February
16, 2018, with a termination date of June 30, 2018.  The testimony of the
Landlord was that the not for profit association had sought the approval of
their membership at a duly convened meeting in the spring of 2017 to rent the
lower unit commercially and take steps to take over the upper unit for the
association’s use.
20.   I
do not doubt that the Tenant is in correspondence with government agencies
concerning his complaints that the commercial tenant below is disturbing him
with noise and smells, I am troubled that he has not called the agencies as
witnesses, and that the hearsay email evidence he presented is not clear and
complete, which leads me to give it little weight. 
21.   My
decision pursuant to section 83(3)(b) of the Act is that the eviction must be
denied if I find that “the reason for the application being brought is that the
tenant has complained to a governmental authority of the landlord’s violation
of a law dealing with health, safety, housing or maintenance standards”.  The
evidence does not support that the complaints by the Tenant to the City
departments were the reason that the Landlord brought the application.  The
Landlord’s purposes in pursuing the eviction were long established as supported
by the directions from their membership. It should also be noted that the complaints
being pursued were all against the commercial tenant and not against the
Landlord.   
22.   I
find, on a balance of probabilities, considering the evidence presented by both
parties, that the application is not being brought by the Landlord as a result
of the Tenant complaining to a government authority, and that section 83(3)(b)
does not apply.
23.   I
find that the Landlord has established their intention to convert the rental
unit to non-residential purposes, for the use of the Association’s membership. 
The application to evict will be granted subject to consideration of the
circumstances pursuant to section 83(3)(a) of the Act and section 83(2) of the
Act.
TST-94747-18
24.   The
Tenant’s application is alleging interference with his reasonable enjoyment by
the operation of the licenced bar below his unit. The Tenant has taken many
complaints against the operator of the business, but this application is
alleging that the Landlord has interfered with the Tenant’s reasonable
enjoyment of the premises by failing to address substantial interference by the
commercial tenant. To be successful in this application, the Tenant must
establish that the other tenant substantially interfered with his reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit by making excessive noise and noxious smells. The
Tenant must also establish that the Landlord failed to take reasonable steps to
address the interference with the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment. 
25.   The
Tenant testified that the noise of music from the bar downstairs has severely
impacted his reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit and his health.  The
Tenant says he is kept awake each night until the bar closes, approximately 3
am, and that it has made him depressed, exhausted and that he has had to stop
work since February 2018.
26.   The
Tenant played recordings of the noise he said he had taken in his apartment,
but he had transferred the recordings from his phone to a computer and then
insisted on playing them through an amplified sound system.  I find that it was
impossible to estimate the actual sound levels within the rental unit.  
27.   The
Tenant provided a letter from his doctor dated April 4, 2018 which repeats the
concerns of the Tenant and says that they are contributing to his anxiety and
depressed mood.  
28.   The
Tenant called a witness, CL, who testified that she has been in the rental unit
while the bar is operating, and has observed noxious fumes, and heard loud
music, that makes normal conversation difficult.  CL also testified that she
has seen significant changes in the Tenant since the bar opened because of his
stress and anxiety over the noise and noxious fumes.
29.   CP
testified that she is a resident of a building adjacent to the building in
which the Tenant has his rental unit.  She further testified that the
neighbourhood has changed since the bar opened, in that she hears noisy music
from the bar and finds the crowds around the bar doorway intimidating. CP has
never attended the Tenant’s rental unit and she was not played any recordings
of the noise in the Tenant’s unit so as to corroborate the noise levels.  
30.   RC
testified that she is also a resident of a building adjacent to the building in
which the Tenant has his rental unit.  She also testified that she finds the
noise from the bar disruptive and has complained to the City and her local
councillor.  She estimated that the music is disruptive until 10 – 12 pm, 3 – 4
days per week.  She also has never attended the Tenant’s rental unit, nor was
played any recordings of the noise so as to corroborate the noise levels.  
31.   As
was noted previously, the Tenant did not summons or call any witness from the
City who is responding to his complaints of noise and noxious odours.  
32.   HB
testified as a reply witness.  She is the owner of the bar/hookah lounge,
licenced with a business and liquor licence.  HB admitted that the lounge has
received tickets for providing nicotine tobacco, but that she no longer allows
any nicotine tobacco in the lounge and is contesting all the tickets she has
received.  She says that the bar closes on time and that inspectors have come to
observe the noise and found the noise not to be excessive.  She further
testified that she did special soundproofing in the roof and an efficient
ventilation system that takes the smoke outside.  
33.   The
Landlord testified that Directors in the association have spoken with the
commercial tenant regarding the noise and noxious fumes complaints and have
received explanations from the commercial tenants as to how the issues are
being addressed.  The Landlord is aware of the complaints made to the City but
have not been contacted by the City to have any substantive role in the
proceedings.  
34.   Noise
is a highly subjective issue.  The Tenant must establish on a balance of
probabilities that the commercial tenant downstairs is making excessive noise
and noxious fumes and that the Landlord has not taken reasonable steps to
address his complaints.  
35.   All
of the evidence concerning the levels of noise and fumes came only from the
Tenant.  I found his descriptions to be hyperbolic and melodramatic.  The
Tenant also cannot expect the issues he is facing to be compared against what
he had when he had only the not for profit utilizing its space for cultural
purposes.  It is within the rights of the Landlord to lease its lower unit for
a commercial purpose within the allowable zoning.  
36.   I
find that the Tenant has established, on a balance of probabilities, that there
is excessive noise and fumes coming from the commercial tenant and that he is
deserving of a rent abatement to compensate him for some loss of reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit. 
37.   An
abatement is a contractual remedy. It recognises the idea that a tenant is
paying rent for a bundle of goods and services and if the tenant is not
receiving everything being paid for then he or she is entitled to abatement
proportional to the difference between what is being paid for and what is being
received.  It is also necessary, pursuant to section 16 of the Act, for the
Tenant to take reasonable steps to minimize any losses arising from the
circumstances.
38.   I
find that the appropriate abatement in these circumstances, considering that
the Tenant remains in the unit and is disrupted in his ordinary use of the
rental unit in the evening hours, some days of each week, to be 20% of the
monthly rent of $1200.00 per month, or $240.00 per month, from February 2018
through to the end of the tenancy. The Tenant can set off the allowed abatement
against the rent found owing on the L1 application. 
39.   I
also find, on a balance of probabilities, and considering the evidence
presented by both parties, that the Landlord’s breach of responsibilities is
not a serious breach within the application of section 83(3) (a) and so it does
not apply in this situation.  
TSL-00082-18
40.   The
Tenant did not pay the total rent the Tenant was required to pay for the period
from July 1, 2018 to September 30, 2018.  Because of the arrears, the Landlord
served a Notice of Termination effective October 9, 2018.
 
41.   The
Tenant admits he did not comply with an interim order issued on November 5,
2018 that the sum of $6,000.00 should be paid into the Board in trust on or
before November 30, 2018. 
Section
83(2) Considerations
42.   The
Tenant did testify that he has experienced significant personal loss in the
last few years and as a result has experienced severe situational depression
for the last eighteen months and is still currently suffering.  He testified he
has experienced the stress of having the new commercial tenant below operating
since February 1, 2018 as exacerbating all of his symptoms and causing him to
be sleepless and anxious, as well as having breathing difficulties that he
attributes to the smoke from downstairs. The Tenant presented no medical
evidence beyond the doctor’s letter described above.
43.   The
Tenant also testified that he has been unable to consider looking for new
accommodation due to his depression.  He has lived in the rental unit for
approximately 20 years and also works from home, which had required satellite
equipment to be installed on the roof.  He also says that he is attached to the
neighbourhood and would like to find comparable accommodation, at a comparable
rate as he has limited income. The Tenant was unable to respond when asked for
an estimate of how long he anticipated he would need if the tenancy was ordered
to terminate.
44.   I
have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance with
subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'), and
find that it would not be unfair to postpone the eviction until April 30,
2019 pursuant to subsection 83(1)(b) of the Act as this will give the
Tenant some extra time to look for new accommodation and will not excessively
inconvenience the Landlord, having also taken into account the protracted
nature of these proceedings and the extra time in the rental unit the Tenant
has had as a result.
It is ordered that:
 
1.      The
request to review order TSL-93207-18-IN AND TST-94747-18-IN, issued on July 31,
2018, is granted. The order is cancelled and replaced by the following order.
2.      The
tenancy between the Landlord and the Tenant is terminated. The Tenant must move
out of the rental unit on or before April 30, 2019.
3.     
The Tenant shall pay to the Landlord $10,323.72*, which represents
the amount of rent owing and compensation up to March 15, 2019, plus the
Landlord’s cost of filing the application.
4.      The
Landlord owes the Tenant a rent abatement in the amount of $3,360.00, which has
been set off against the amount owing to the Landlord.  
5.      The
full amount owing is $6,723.72.
6.     If
the Tenant does not pay the Landlord the full amount owing* on or before April
30, 2019, the Tenant will start to owe interest.  This will be simple interest
calculated from May 1, 2019 at 3.00% annually on the balance outstanding.
7.     
The Tenant shall also pay to the
Landlord $39.45 per day for compensation for the use of the unit starting March
16, 2019 to the date the Tenant moves out of the unit.
8.      If
the unit is not vacated on or before April 30, 2019, then starting May 1, 2019,
the Landlord may file this order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) so
that the eviction may be enforced.
9.      Upon
receipt of this order, the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) is directed to
give vacant possession of the unit to the Landlord on or after May 1, 2019.
 
 
March 15, 2019                                                                
Date Issued                                                                      Nancy
Henderson
                                                                                                                           Vice-Chair,
Landlord and Tenant Board
Toronto South-RO
79 St. Clair Avenue East, Suite 212, 2nd Floor
Toronto ON M4T1M6
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or
toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
In accordance with section 81 of the Act, the part of this order
relating to the eviction expires on October 1, 2019 if the order has not been
filed on or before this date with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff) that
has territorial jurisdiction where the rental unit is located.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 1
SUMMARY OF CALCULATIONS
 
File Number: TSL-00082-18
 
A.        Amount the Tenant must pay the Landlord:
 



Reasons for amount owing


Period


Amount



 



 Arrears: (up to the termination date in
  the Notice of Termination)


July 1, 2018 to October 9, 2018


$3,955.07



 
 



Plus compensation: (from the day after the
  termination date in the Notice to the date of the order)


October 10, 2018 to March 15, 2019


$6,193.65



 
 



Additional costs the Tenant must pay to the Landlord:


$175.00



 



Amount owing to the Landlord on the order date:(total of previous boxes)


$10,323.72



 
 



Less the rent abatement:


$3,600.00



 



Plus daily compensation owing for each day of occupation
  starting March 16, 2019:


$39.45 (per
  day)



 
 



Total the Tenant must pay the Landlord:


$6,723.72, + $39.45 per day starting March 16, 2019



 

