Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-24
File number:	
TSL-13502-20

Citation:	Toronto Community Housing Corp v Kamaha, 2022 CanLII 86357 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js1hd>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: TSL-13502-20
 
 



In the
  matter of:


1413, 295 SHUTER STREET TORONTO ON M5A1W6


 




Between:


Toronto Community Housing Corp


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Jean Baptiste Kamaha


Tenant



 
 
 
Toronto
Community Housing Corp (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the
tenancy and evict Jean Baptiste Kamaha (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant has
knowingly misrepresented the Tenant's
income or the income of other members
of the Tenant's family who occupy the unit; and because the
Tenant no longer qualifies to live in the rental unit (the ‘L2 Application
based on an N6 Notice’).
 
The Landlord also applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict the Tenant because
he has been persistently late in paying his rent (the ‘L2 Application
based on an N8 Notice’).
 
The Landlord also applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy of the Tenant
for or transferring the occupancy to a person other than by an
assignment or sublet in accordance with the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the ‘Act’) and for compensation for the use of the rental unit. (the ‘A2
Application’)
 
This application was heard over October
1 and November 24, 2020 and continued
on February 18, April 22 and
May 6, 2021.
 
The Landlord’s Legal
Representative, Joanna Kraczek, the Landlord’s instructing client, Faye
Francis, Investigator Randy Roth, the Landlord’s Employee, Christopher Cooper,
Building Property Manager Shane Tracey, Landlord Investigator Kathiresu
Cheliyan, the Tenant, the Tenant's Legal Representative, Stephan Peters, and the Tenant’s
witnesses Nicole Tshinyam Mbuanya and Lydie Toussom
attended the hearing.
 
The parties were assisted
by French-English Interpreter Manuel Costa and Lingal Interpreters Minia Ngambua and Alain
Ambele.
 
Preliminary Issues:
 
1.   
At the hearing on October 1, 2020, the Landlord withdrew
the N8 application, and clarified it wished to proceed on the
basis of the N6 and A2 only, which I accepted.




 
2.   
Witness Nicole Tshinyam Mbuanya was
instructed, prior to beginning
her testimony, to ensure she was alone and not in the same room as the Tenant when testifying. At one
point, during her testimony, the Tenant was observed in the same room as her,
and formally warned by the Member that if he failed to comply with her
instructions, the witness’ testimony may be excluded and/or given less weight.
 
Determinations:
 
A2 Application
 
3.     The Tenant lives in a rental unit, which is part of a residential complex containing rent geared to income rental units (”RGI
housing”).
 
4.    
The Landlord alleged that the Tenant
transferred occupancy or subleased the rental unit contrary to Act (the “Shuter
street unit”).
 
Landlord’s Evidence
5.    
The Landlord relied on the
testimony of it’s investigator, Randy Roth (‘RR’), who testified that as a result
of a request from Tenant Coordinator Faye Francis (‘FF’) on May 9, 2019, he began investigating the
possibility that the Tenant was illegally subletting the Shuter street unit
rental unit.
 
6.     RR stated that as the beginning of his investigation,
he performed a credit check on the Tenant and the report indicated that the
Tenant lived at a rental unit on Victoria Park avenue since May of 2012 and not in the rental
unit subject to this application. RR stated he spoke to
the superintendent of the residential complex at the Victoria Park rental unit,
who confirmed that the Tenant and his girlfriend had both lived there. However, the superintendent continued by
stating that the couple had moved out and were living somewhere “down the
street” on Victoria Park, but wasn’t sure where exactly; \; as a result RR surmised that the Tenant was living in a unit
near the Victoria Park rental unit and not at the Shuter street unit.
 
7.     RR explained that following his investigation, he was
able to deduce where the Tenant had moved to a different
residential complex on Victoria Park, or the second Victoria
Park residential complex. RR
testified that he showed a photo of
the Tenant to an employee at the second Victoria Park residential complex’s
office, who confirmed that the Tenant and his girlfriend had lived there, but had moved
down the street, to a different residential complex on Victoria Park, or a third Victoria Park
residential complex. This employee also
confirmed that the Tenant’s name was not on the lease.
 
8.     RR then attended a fourth Victoria Park residential
complex, where he believed the Tenant had lived. According to RR the Property manager of this building confirmed
stated that the Tenant had lived there in the past with another person but
moved in on January 23, 2012. RR provided
a copy of the lease
for this rental
unit and noted
that the Tenant’s initials
were at the bottom. This was not
denied by the Tenant.




 
9.    
Based on this, RR downloaded the
close circuit television (‘CCTV’) footage for a two- week period in June
2019.RR testified that he saw a male and female, the alleged sub- tenants, using the key fob on a daily basis. RR issued a notice of entry on June 6, 2019
to inspect the rental unit to confirm the household composition of the rental
unit.
 
10.  On June 7, 2019, RR inspected the rental unit with two
witnesses, one which included Building Property Manager
Shane Tracey (‘ST’) and the three were greeted by a woman,
Nicole Tshinyam Mbuanya (‘NTM’), who allowed them into the apartment. NTM confirmed her identify via her Ontario
photo card, which showed she lived at one of the rental units on Victoria Park,
mentioned above. NTM allegedly was in
the rental unit to look after it while the Tenant was out of the country
for three months.
ST confirmed RR’s testimony of such.
 
11.  RR observed women’s
and men’s clothing
all over the rental unit, as well as prescriptions in the name of NTM and Bob
Koalonnji (‘BK’), which RR proved were filled in December 2018. RR provided photos of the rental unit and
the prescriptions.
 
12.  ST, also testified that he worked at the residential
complex five days a week, eight hours a day.
In his role, he had not seen the Tenant it what he described “a long
time”. Instead, he stated that he had seen NTM many times
in the residential complex and NTM
had visited ST many times to request repairs in the rental unit. Since NTM was not an official tenant of
the rental unit, ST informed her that the Tenant would be required to request
the repairs. ST stated that on these
occasions, he would then receive a request for repair from the Tenant by
telephone.
 
13.  When shown photos from RR’s visit to the rental unit,
the Tenant was able to identify several of the pieces of clothing that RR alleged
were “women’s”. One example would be
an apron that RR testified about. The
Tenant recognized it, and clarified that he uses it, as does NTM when she cooks
for him.
 
14.  RR also confirmed that the Landlord’s database
information regarding the Tenant stated
that he has not declared any occupations or co-lease
holders. After reviewing six weeks of CCTV of May 9 to 26, 2019, May 27 to June 3, 2019 and
June 6 to 20, 2019, RR concluded that only NTM and RR were using the Tenant’s
fob during that period to gain access to the residential complex.
However, RR only provided two photos from this time period to support this. RR also concluded that the Tenant had not
resided in his rental unit for quite some time.
 
15.  Landlord Investigator Kathiresu
Cheliyan (‘KC’) also testified regarding
observations from the CCTV
footage related to the Tenant’s fob activity from the residential complex from
March 30, 2021 to April 12, 2021. KC
confirmed that only a female and a male, neither whom are the Tenant, used the Tenant’s fob during
this time. KC also confirmed that the
Tenant was not observed at any point during the time period using his FOB. On cross- examination, KC did admit that it was possible the
Tenant was using the FOB, due to the people in the CCTV wearing
masks. Moreover, he was unable to
confirm with certainty that the Tenant
had not simply gained access
to the residential complex without
using his fob to enter the
building, which KC did acknowledge does occur with other tenants.




 
16.  KC emailed the Landlord's Legal Representative regarding the fob/CCTV footage
on May 4, 2021, where he
observed the male and female described above.
KC testified that he believed that the male and female were “moving out”
of the Tenant’s rental unit on April 25, 2021 based on them carrying bags and a
box out of the residential complex.
 
17.  KC also testified that based on the Landlord’s records
from Axiom, the company who manages the fob system, from April 12 to May 4,
2021, there was no fob activity since. KC also confirmed on cross-examination
that he did not observe a moving truck nor furniture when the two people
allegedly moved out of the residential complex. Furthermore, KC was not present in the residential complex’s lobby when this occurred.
 
18.  The Landlord's Legal Representative submitted
that the Tenant
had allowed unauthorized persons to reside in his
rental unit and also misrepresented his income by not declaring the occupant’s
income. Based on this, she requested
that the Board terminate the Tenant’s tenancy and evict him.
 
Tenant’s Evidence
 
19.  The Tenant’s position
is that he did not allow authorized persons to reside
in the unit and that he does
not have a rental unit elsewhere.
 
20.   The Tenant testified that he left Canada to go to
Cameroon from on approximately May 15, 2019 until June 1, 2019 and presented
his plane ticket as confirmation. The
Tenant confirmed that he visited Cameroon to seek medical treatment for his
illnesses. The Tenant also confirmed
that while in Cameroon, he left the keys and fob to the rental unit and
residential complex with his daughter, Kamaha
Simen (‘KS’) and told NTM about this arrangement. The Tenant also confirmed that no one was living
in his rental unit while
he way away, but his daughter and NTM visited the rental unit to ensure
it was not in disrepair.
 
21.  The Tenant stated that he was back from Cameroon and
living in his unit on approximately June 1, 2019. He submitted a letter from
his doctor stating that he has limited mobility. As a result,
the Tenant stated
that he doesn’t
walk around much, which
would explain why ST had not observed the Tenant in the residential complex. The Tenant also confirmed that his source
of income is his ODSP payments.
 
22.  The Tenant confirmed that he had previously been
married and living with his wife in the rental
unit, but that he and his wife divorced in 2019. He also confirmed that his ex-wife’s name was previously on the lease
but was removed once she no longer lived with the Tenant.
 
23.  The Tenant also testified that his girlfriend, NTM,
often cares for him as a result of his health issues. He specified that NTM resides on Victoria Park avenue, but often
visits him, as does his son, which the Tenant confirmed as the two people seen
in the CCTV previously discussed. The Tenant confirmed that his son also cares for him regularly, as he works next to the Tenant’s
residential complex. The Tenant also
confirmed that neither NTM nor anyone else had or has ever lived with him in
the rental unit for more than thirty days except his ex-wife, who was an
authorized tenant.




 
 
 
24.  The Tenant also disputed some of the CCTV footage
presented during the hearing, stating that he could be observed entering and
exiting the rental unit during the time period
of March 30, 2021 to April 12, 2021, contrary
to the testimony of KC, and was able
to identify himself in some of the Landlord’s CCTV photo evidence. The Tenant also confirmed that the male
and female seen entering and exiting the rental unit during this period were
his son and girlfriend.
 
25.  The Tenant also confirmed that his girlfriend, NTM,
sometimes stayed over at the Tenant’s rental unit for the weekend when she knew she didn’t have to work the next day.
 
26.  The Tenant submitted several government documents form 2010 until 2019, confirming that his address is the rental
unit, including a bank statement, an Ontario Disability Support Program
(‘ODSP’),a Canada Revenue Agency (‘CRA’), and
a Citizenship and Immigration Canada (‘CIC’) communication, all bearing the
rental unit as the Tenant’s address.
 
27.  The Tenant's Legal Representative reminded the
Landlord Tenant Board (the ‘Board’) that most of the allegations regarding the
Tenant living at rental units on Victoria Park were based on hearsay,
as the Landlord chose not to bring any of the people involved in RR’s investigation to the hearing. Based on this, he submitted that RR’s
testimony regarding this evidence should be given little weight.
 
28.  The Tenant's Legal Representative also questioned RR
regarding his findings in the Tenant’s rental unit. He took issue with RR’s determination that the clothes observed
in the rental unit were women’s clothing, as many of the pieces of clothing
were not gendered and that RR was making assumptions by stating such. The Tenant's Legal Representative also
took issue with RR’s qualification that there were equally men’s and women’s
clothes. Instead, after questioning
RR did state that there were only photos of two items of clothes
that RR identified at “women’s
clothing”. RR testified that there were more, but those were the only photos
he took.
 
29.  The Tenant did not contest
that he had visited the rental units
on Victoria Park avenue, as his girlfriend lives there. He confirmed that NTM had lived at several
different units on Victoria Park avenue. The
Tenant's Legal Representative also submitted that the Landlord had failed to
demonstrate, based on a balance of probabilities, that the Tenant was not
visiting his girlfriend who lived at the above mentioned rental units on
Victoria Park avenue previous mentioned and that the Tenant had actually lived
in any of said rental units.
 
30.  NTM also testified that she lives at the rental unit
at Victoria Park, and estimated she’s lived there since 2016 or 2017. She confirmed that the Tenant is her
boyfriend since 2017 and that they have never lived together. NTM also confirmed that the Tenant’s
children live between her home and the Tenant’s rental
unit. She also confirmed that she
is employed and supports herself.
 
31.  NTM testified that she regularly
visits the Tenant
at his rental unit and often cares for him while doing so. She also confirmed that she often
visits him when he’s not home to cook




 
and clean for him, often when the Tenant
is attending his doctors. NTM also confirmed that the Tenant does visit her at her rental unit, which sometimes lasts up to two
nights.
 
32.  NTM also testified that the Tenant
had a bout of COVID in April of 2021, and as a result, he was spending more time with
her at her rental unit. However,
since recovering, the Tenant is now spending more time as his own rental unit.
 
33.  NTM was presented
with one of the CCTV photos of the two people allegedly
moving out of the Tenant’s
rental unit. NTM confirmed that the
people in the photo are her and the Tenant’s son, BK. NTM clarified that on
April 25, 2021, she and BK were not
moving out of the Tenant’s
rental unit but were assisting him reorganize his home. She explained that her and BK were throwing out and donating
personal items the Tenant no longer wished to own. Moreover, NTM stated that the Tenant was home on April 25, 2021
but remained in his rental unit due to his health.
 
34.  NTM did confirm
that the Tenant
sometimes gives her his key and fob for the rental unit and residential complex. NTM also
confirmed that at no point has she
ever resided the Tenant’s rental
unit for thirty nights in a row or paid him rent for such.
 
35.  The Tenant also relied on the testimony of Lydie
Toussom (‘LT’), his half-sister. LT
confirmed that she also lives in a rental unit located on Victoria Park avenue. She explained that as a result of this
tenancy, her brother, the Tenant, signed her lease as a guarantor and not a tenant of the rental
unit. LD clarified
that only she has ever paid rent for this rental unit, and that the
Tenant has never lived with her. LT
also confirmed that she currently lives in the same residential complex as NTM.
 
36.  LT also confirmed
that the Tenant
has acted as a guarantor
for her when she purchased a car and also helped her move
into her rental unit in December of either 2015 or 2016.
 
37.  RR confirmed that he was not able to speak to the
nature of the relationship between the Tenant and his ex-wife and adduced that
was for the Board to decide. He also confirmed that the only
documentary evidence to support his claims was the initial of the Tenant on the
lease mentioned above. He confirmed
that he did not obtain the leases of the other rental units in question
and relied on the information provided by the residential complex’s employees, which was provided
as hearsay during the hearing.
 
38.  The Tenant's Legal Representative also took issue with
the Equifax report relied on the by the Landlord, as it indicated that the
Tenant had been living at the rental unit on Victoria Park since 2012. Instead, he suggested that credit checks
are not a reliable way of determining the issues in dispute,
and that credit score companies are not infallible.
 
39.  The Tenant's Legal
Representative also submitted
that NTM, who does not speak English as a first language, had
communication difficulties with RR and that she is the Tenant’s girlfriend and
not his ex or current wife.




 
Analysis
 
40.  Section 100 of the Act
states that if a tenant
transfers the occupancy of a rental
unit that is not in compliance
with the Act, the landlord may apply to the Board for an order
terminating the tenancy and evicting the tenant and the person who is occupying
the rental unit.
 
41.  After considering the submissions of the parties,
based on a balance of probabilities, I find
that the Tenant
is residing in the rental
unit, that NM is not residing in the rental
unit, and the Tenant did not transfer occupancy of the rental unit.
 
42.  I was not persuaded by the Landlord’s evidence in this
case. I note that there is nothing improper with having guests in the rental
unit; the Tenant
was entirely within his rights
to allow guests into the unit and to ask them to check on the unit while
he was out of the country.
 
43.  Further, I agree with position
put forward by Tenant’s counsel
that relying on the
presence of supposedly “women’s
clothing” is the rental unit is neither helpful
or appropriate in determining whether a tenancy has been transferred.
 
44.  In terms of the closed-circuit television and fob
evidence, I was not persuaded that the Tenant
having guests over regularly demonstrated that he had unauthorized occupants
in the rental unit. Instead, I
found that this evidence further showed that the Tenant was getting assistance
from his girlfriend and son, which is not a breach of the Act.
 
45.  I put less weight on NTM’s testimony due to the issues
described in the preliminary issues. None the less the Tenant was able to provide a convincing, consistent narrative of the reasons that the Landlord may believe the
Tenant had/has unauthorized occupants. This
position was supported with evidence.
 
46.  The Landlord also failed to demonstrate that someone other than the Tenant was paying
his lawful, monthly rent. The
Landlord also was unable to persuade me that the Tenant has or does live at
a rental unit on Victoria
Avenue, as it was only able to rely on the oral testimony of it’s employees and did not provide
me with a lease or testimony from any of the employees of the Victoria Avenue
residential complex. Moreover, I was
not presented with any direct evidence from the Landlord or any of the alleged Victoria Park
landlords that demonstrated that the Tenant was not living in his rental unit
on Shuter street.        Given that the Tenant’s
girlfriend and half sister live at one of the rental unit’s in question, I find it
more likely than not that
the Tenant was visiting these units as a
guest.
 
L2 Application
 
47.  Since I have found that the Tenant did not have
unauthorized occupants living in his rental unit, I also find that the Tenant did not misrepresent his income by not declaring
the income of the alleged unauthorized
occupants, as they were not tenants of the rental unit or residential complex.




 
It is
ordered that:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s applications are dismissed.
 
 
January 24, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor
Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

