Metadata:
Date:	2017-07-28
File number:	
TSL-81884-17-IN2
	TSL-81884-17-IN2
Citation:	TSL-81884-17-IN2 (Re), 2017 CanLII 60290 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/h5zf3>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/h5zf3
Content:


Order under Section
16.1 of the 
Statutory Powers Procedure Act 
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TSL-81884-17-IN2
 
 
 
 
INTERIM ORDER 
 
R.P.M.S.I
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict C.M
(the 'Tenant') because the Tenant did not pay the rent that the Tenant owes.
 
This
application was heard in Toronto on July 24, 2017.  The Landlord’s
representative C.H and the Tenant attended the bilingual hearing.  The
Landlord’s representative participated in English, the Tenant participated in
French and S.B translated.  
 
This
interim order is issued in English and in French.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    This is an
L1 application where the Tenant raised and intends to raise issues pursuant to
section 82 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’). 
 
2.    Interim
order TSL-81884-17-IN issued on March 13, 2017 required the Tenant to pay
ongoing rent to the Landlord until the application is resolved and the Tenant
has, more or less, complied with that interim order.  That provision of the interim
order should continue in force until further interim order of the Landlord and
Tenant Board (the ‘Board’).
 
Disclosure
 
3.    The
interim order also required the parties to disclose documents to each other
which the Tenant said the Landlord did not do within the timelines provided in
the interim order.  The Landlord’s representative said that the Landlord did
comply but the Tenant did not pick up his disclosure from the Landlord’s
office.  
 
4.    The Tenant
argued the Landlord’s application should be dismissed because of the
non-compliance but I find the Landlord did substantially comply where the
Tenant received the documentation in question shortly after, in April, 2017.  It
is not abuse of process as alleged by the Tenant and he was not prejudiced.  In
fact, the further disclosure timelines below are required now that the Tenant
is raising another issue arising from that disclosure.  
 
5.    The Tenant
indicated what issues he intended to raise pursuant to section 82 and, to
ensure that this application is completed on a timely basis, those issues are
the only ones that will be considered in the context of the Landlord’s
application pursuant to section 82.  In other words, and as indicated at the
hearing, the Tenant’s issues crystallized on the date of the hearing.
 
Multiple
Files
 
6.    The Tenant
also argued that the Landlord’s application should be dismissed because the
Landlord could have filed this application with another application that
alleged late payment of rent which I understand is now resolved.  
 
7.    I do not
agree with the Tenant that this is abuse of process either where the only issue
to be determined will be whether the Tenant might be liable for the filing fee
incurred twice.
 
Section 82
Issues
 
8.    The Tenant
indicated he would be raising four issues pursuant to section 82 of the Act:
his balcony in disrepair, an issue regarding receipts, what he wrote in English
was “aggressiveness verbally towards my person”, and an issue regarding
photographs and privacy occurring after disclosure was complete.
 
Balcony
 
9.    The
Tenant’s primary issue relates to the balcony which was before me in hearings
resulting in order TST-58763-14 issued on March 24, 2016 which was not amended
on review.  That order allowed a deduction of rent if the balcony remained in
disrepair which I understand is the bulk of the arrears in this application.  This
issue will be considered at the next hearing before me.
 
Receipts
 
10. The
Tenant’s second issue involves receipts: how the Landlord requires the Tenant
to pick them up and how its receipts do not, in the Tenant’s view, comply with
the regulation on the form receipts are to take.  This is an issue that was
resolved at the hearing.
 
11. I
indicated at the hearing that while it is not the creditor’s responsibility to
seek out his debtor, not an issue here because the Tenant takes the time to pay
rent at the rental office of the complex, it is not the debtor’s duty to seek
out his creditor for receipts.  This is because subsection 109(1) of the Act
says that: “a landlord shall provide free of charge to a tenant or former
tenant, on request, a receipt for the payment of rent…paid to the landlord.” 
The Landlord’s representative said that the Tenant had to come back to the
office several days after paying rent to retrieve his receipts to which the
Tenant objected because of other commitments.  I determined that the use of the
word “provide” places the obligation on the Landlord’s side, where it is the
Landlord’s responsibility to provide a receipt and not the Tenant’s to retrieve
it.  
 
12. As a
result, it is ordered that the Landlord shall email rent receipts to the Tenant
within three business days after the Tenant makes any payments.
 
13. The Tenant
also said the Landlord’s form of receipts do not comply with section 9(c) of
Ontario Regulation 516/06 in that they do not include: “the amount and date for
each payment received for any rent, rent deposit, arrears of rent, or any other
amount paid to the landlord and shall specify what the payment was for.”  The
receipt provided at the hearing is a receipt for an entire calendar year and,
although specific amounts relating to payments are listed in an attachment
referred to on the front page, the receipt provided is compliant. 
 
14. Based on
the evidence before me, I find that the Landlord’s form of receipt complies
with the regulation.
 
Aggressiveness

 
15. The Tenant
alleged that the Landlord’s staff acted aggressively toward him but the only
remedy requested is that the Landlord treat the Tenant with respect, politeness
and courtesy.  Without making any finding that the Landlord acted improperly,
the Landlord consented to an order along those lines.  This issue is therefore
resolved.
Privacy
16. The Tenant
will allege that the Landlord’s staff photographed the Tenant’s unit from a
neighbouring balcony.  New disclosure dates are set out below for that item
alone so it can be considered at the next hearing.
Conclusion
17. The only
remaining issues that will be heard at the next hearing are those relating to
the balcony and those relating to the privacy breaches alleged by the Tenant.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The
payment provisions of interim order TSL-81884-17-IN issued March 13, 2017 shall
continue until further order of the Board.
 
2.    The
Tenant’s two motions to dismiss the Landlord’s application on abuse of process
grounds are denied.
 
3.    The
Tenant’s issue regarding the form of the Landlord’s receipts is dismissed.
 
4.    On
a final basis, the Landlord will provide the Tenant receipts for payments by
email within three business days from the date of payment.
 
5.    On
a final basis, the Landlord’s staff will treat the Tenant with respect, politeness
and courtesy.
 
6.    The
remaining issues to be heard at the next hearing beyond section 83 of the Act
are limited to those relating to the balcony and privacy.  Any further
documentary disclosure by the Tenant relating to privacy is to be provided to the
Landlord on or before August 8, 2017, and any further disclosure from the
Landlord to the Tenant shall be provided on or before August 29, 2017. 
            
 
July 28, 2017                                                                    _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Jean-Paul
Pilon
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
79 St. Clair Avenue East, Suite 212, 2nd Floor
Toronto ON M4T1M6
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or
toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

