Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-26
File number:	
TSL-24047-21; 
 TSL-24048-21; 
 TSL-24049-21

Citation:	Tao v Fietkau, 2022 CanLII 86553 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js1hv>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TSL-24047-21 &
TSL-24048-21& TSL-24049-21
 
In the matter of:      237 PICKERING STREET,
Basement, Main Floor, Upper Floor
TORONTO ON M4E3J9
 
Between:                  Norman Tao                                    Landlord
 
 
and
 




Sue Ann Fietkau Richard Sherwood Laura Sherwood


Tenants




 
 
 
 
Norman Tao (the 'Landlord') applied
for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Sue Ann
Fietkau, Richard Sherwood, and Laura Sherwood (the 'Tenants') because the
Landlord has entered into an agreement of purchase and sale of the rental unit and the
purchaser requires possession
of the rental unit for the purpose of residential occupation.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on January 18, 2022.
 
The Landlord’s legal representative, Roderic McRandall, and the Tenants
Sue Ann Fietkau, Richard Sherwood, and Laura
Sherwood attended the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
 
1.       
The residential complex is divided
into three rental units. Each of the Tenants lives in a separate unit, and each has an
individual tenancy agreement with the Landlord.
 
2.       
The Landlord is seeking to evict
the tenants because he entered into an agreement of purchase and sale for the property,
and the purchaser seeks to convert the entire building into a single dwelling for their
own use.
 
3.       
Neither the Landlord nor the purchaser
attended the hearing.
 
4.       
The property is a dwelling that had been converted into three separate
units.




5.       
It is undisputed that S.Fietkau
(SF)., R Sherwood (RS), and L.Sherwood (LS) did not receive compensation
equivalent to one month’s rent prior to the termination date of October 31, 2021, on their respective N12 notices of termination. This is in contravention
of sections 49.1 and 55. 1 of Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
‘Act’).
6.       
The Tenants are long-term tenants and have lived in their units for over ten years.
7.       
The Tenants are each on
month-to-month tenancies, and they said that their respective rental periods do
not terminate on the last day of the month. Therefore,
they all allege that their N12 notices of termination are fatally flawed.
However, the Tenants
each admit that they did not
have any documentary evidence of the day the rent is due.
8.       
 At the hearing, the Tenant, SF
said that the Agreement of Purchase and Sale was contradictory to the
declaration provided by the purchaser. The Tenants submitted into evidence a copy of the Agreement
of Purchase and Sale, which states in the Amendment to the agreement that “The
Seller is aware and acknowledges the Buyer intention is to rent the house after the closing date. The Affidavit is a benefit
for the Seller being able to vacate the tenants and provide vacant
possession on closing….”
 
9.       
The Tenants allege that it is a
clear intention of the purchaser to rent the property to tenants after the closing
of the sale, rather than to move into the residential complex
for the purchaser’s own use.
 
Analysis and Reasons:
 
10.  
I find, on a balance of
probabilities, that the purchaser does not genuinely require possession of the units for his own use, i.e. for
him and his family to occupy the unit, for the following reason.
 
11.   After reviewing the evidence that was entered as an
exhibit at the hearing, I find that the Agreement of Purchase and Sale
indicates that the purchaser will be purchasing the property to occupy it with
tenants. It indicates that the Seller
is clearly aware that the purchaser would be submitting an affidavit for own
use for the purpose of getting vacant possession only, and in order to
circumvent the Act. The Seller is
aware that the purchaser’s sworn document is perjury, and also aware that the
purchaser has no intention of moving into the residential complex for their own use, which would be the only lawful means by which the
Landlord/Seller could evict the Tenants and provide vacant possession upon
closing the sale.
 
12.  
Consequently, I find
that the Landlord is aware that the purchaser does not have a good faith intention to convert the rental units
into one single dwelling, and to occupy
them for the purchaser’s own use.
 
13.   The Landlord failed
to provide compensation as required pursuant
to section 49.1 and
55.1 of the Act, and the Landlord is aware that the purchaser
does not, in good faith, intent to occupy the residential
complex for the purchaser’s own residential use. Consequently, the Landlord’s
application will be dismissed.




It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Landlord's application is dismissed.












January 26, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Daniel Berube
Member, Landlord and Tenant
Board
 












Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor
Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

