Metadata:
Date:	2018-05-10
File number:	
TSL-87859-17
	TSL-87859-17
Citation:	TSL-87859-17 (Re), 2018 CanLII 121025 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hwm6q>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hwm6q
Content:


Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: TSL-87859-17
 
 











 
 

J.A (the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate
the tenancy and evict J.G (JG) and R.R (RR) (the 'Tenants') because the Tenants
did not pay the rent that the Tenants owe.
 
This application was heard in Toronto on April 5, 2018.
 
The Landlord, the Landlord’s legal
representative D.S, the Tenant J.G and the Tenants’ representative L.L attended
the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
Arrears
1.     
The parties agreed that the Tenants are in
arrears in the amount of $1,198.76, which represents the rent that was due for
August 2017. 
2.     
At the hearing the Tenants raised issues under
s.82 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'). If the Tenants
are successful in these issues, a rent abatement may be granted which would
either reduce or eliminate the arrears. 
Section 82 issues
3.     
At the outset of the hearing the Landlord’s
legal representative objected to the submission of certain documentary evidence
by the Tenants as disclosure had not been made to the Landlord in accordance
with an interim order issued on September 5, 2017. When he was asked how the
submission of these documents would prejudice the Landlord in his ability to
advance his case at the hearing, the Landlord’s legal representative could not
say how or even that the Landlord would be prejudiced. For this reason, I
accepted the disputed evidence at the hearing. 
4.     
Also at the outset of the hearing, the Tenants’
representative sought to admit evidence and make submissions regarding an
allegation that the Landlord’s actions constitute an abuse of the Board’s
process. The Tenants’ representative had not disclosed this as an issue to the
Landlord in advance nor had he disclosed the proposed evidence to the Landlord
as was ordered by the interim order issued on September 5, 2017. As the
Landlord would be prejudiced by the admission of evidence and submissions on
this issue with no notice, I refused to accept the Tenant’s representative’s
evidence and submissions on this issue.
5.     
At the hearing the Tenants raised the following
issues under s.82 of the Act (pursuant to the list of issues that they
disclosed to the Landlord prior to the hearing): 
a) 
The Landlord disposed of the August payment of
rent and then engaged in eviction proceedings for non-payment;
b) 
The Landlord failed to satisfy an order made by
the Human Rights Tribunal of Ontario (HRTO) with respect to the tenancy;
c)  
The Landlord made derogatory comments about the
Tenant to the press;
d) 
The Landlord damaged the Tenant’s bicycle; and
e) 
The Landlord breached his maintenance
obligations under s.20 of the Act.
6.     
Although the Landlord was present at the
hearing, he did not give any evidence at the hearing. 
The Landlord disposed of the August 2017 payment of rent
7.     
At the hearing JG testified that the Tenants
have lived in the unit for five years and that for their entire tenancy they
have been paying their rent to the Landlord by leaving a cheque in their
mailbox on the first of the month. JG testified that on August 1, 2017 she
placed an envelope containing the Tenants’ cheque for August 2017 in the
mailbox as usual. JG testified that shortly after she had put the envelope in
the mailbox, she saw the envelope crumpled up and in the garbage. At the
hearing JG submitted a photograph showing an unwrinkled envelope with the
Landlord’s name on it being placed in a mailbox and a photograph of the same
enveloped crumpled in a garbage bin.
8.     
On August 2, 2017, the Landlord served the
Tenants with an N4 Notice to End your Tenancy For Non-Payment of Rent (‘N4
notice’). The N4 notice states that the Tenants owe $1,198.76 in arrears of
rent for August 2017.
9.     
At the hearing JG submitted a copy of an
exchange of text messages between JG and the Landlord on August 4, 2017. The
text from JG states that she received the N4 notice and also retrieved her rent
cheque from the garbage after the Landlord threw it out. The Landlord’s text
message reads as follows: “Is. Not bogus. Body. There. Is no. Rent chek. This.
Time. Will cost. 190 dollar. Application fee. If rent. Is not paid. On. 1” I
interpret this message to mean that the Landlord denies putting the cheque in
the garbage and stating that he intends to file an application to the Board if
the rent is not paid. 
10.   JG testified that she was concerned about this situation because the
Landlord has done this kind of thing in the past. JG testified that a year ago
the Tenant RR saw the Landlord throwing one of their rent payments in the
garbage and that the Landlord served an N4 notice shortly afterward. JG
testified that she spoke to the Landlord as he was serving the N4 notice and
mentioned that RR saw him throwing the cheque in the trash. The Landlord cashed
the cheque (presumably he retrieved it from the trash) and no application was
filed.
11.   JG testified that the Landlord also threw out her cheque for January
2017 and then served an N4 notice and filed an application. JG testified that
she attended the hearing of that application prepared to defend herself based
on the Landlord’s actions but that she decided to deal with this issue in her
application to the HRTO. JG consented to an order that resolved that
application.
12.   Based on JG’s uncontested evidence, I am satisfied, on a balance of
probabilities, that the Landlord threw the Tenants’ rent cheque for August 2017
in the garbage and then served the Tenants with an N4 notice. JG testified that
she saw the cheque in the garbage and that a year previously RR saw the
Landlord dispose of their rent cheque. The Landlord was present at the hearing
and could have testified that he did not dispose of the August 2017 rent cheque
but he did not. It is reasonable to assume that if he had not engaged in this
conduct, he would testify that he had not engaged in this conduct. 
13.   In terms of a remedy for this conduct, the Tenants’ representative submitted
that JG should be entitled to compensation for lost income due to her
attendance at the hearing of this application, her attendance at the previous
hearing date for this application, and her trips to the bank to pay her rent into
the Board. JG could have made her August 2017 payment after the Landlord served
the N4 notice. She chose not to do so and instead to deal with this issue
through the Board. The consequence of that decision is that there were
appearances at the Board. For this reason, it would not be appropriate to order
that the Landlord compensate JG for her appearances at the Board on this
matter. Similarly, JG chose to raise s.82 issues at the hearing, which resulted
in her paying her rent into the Board pending the resolution of this matter.
For this reason, it would not be appropriate to order that the Landlord
compensate JG for her time to take trips to the bank to pay her rent into the
Board.
14.   The Tenants did not request any other remedy for this conduct, other
than to request that the Board not order the Tenants to pay the filing fee. The
filing of this application would not have been necessary if the Landlord had
not thrown out the August 2017 cheque. The Landlord decided to file this
application under these circumstances and so it would not be fair to order the
Tenants to compensate him for it. 
15.   The parties did not make submissions as to whether the Landlord, by
his conduct, waived his right to rent for August 2017. I would have considered
this submission very seriously, but since the issue was not raised, I cannot
make determinations on it. 
The Landlord failed to satisfy an order made by the HRTO
16.   Although the Board and the HRTO are part of the same cluster of
tribunals, they are separate entities. To illustrate this: Members of the Board
cannot conduct hearings at the HRTO unless they are also appointed to the HRTO.

17.   Because the HRTO is a separate entity, the Board has no role in
enforcing the HRTO’s decisions.
18.   The Tenants’ representative submitted that there should be an order
allowing the Tenants to set off their arrears against the Landlord’s obligation
to pay the Tenants pursuant to the HRTO order. The Tenants’ representative
submitted that Marineland of Canada Inc. v. Olsen, 2011 ONSC 6522 (‘Marineland’)
gives me authority to do this. I do not interpret Marineland in this
way. The facts in Marineland were that the tenants were in arrears of
rent and the Board made an order requiring the landlord to pay an amount to the
tenants as compensation related to a notice of termination. In Marineland
there was no order issued by a separate court, tribunal or other decision
making authority against which arrears were sought to be set off. In this case,
the Tenant’s representative essentially requests that the Board partially
enforce the HRTO order. The Board does not have the jurisdiction to do this.
Accordingly, there will be no order setting off the Tenants’ arrears against
the amount owed to the Tenants by the Landlord.
The Landlord made derogatory comments about the Tenant to the press
19.   At the hearing JG submitted a copy of an article published by a
major news outlet online on July 5, 2017 which reports on the HRTO decision. In
the article the Landlord is quoted as saying “she can go screw herself… She
provokes me and I call her a hooker…, what’s the big f------ deal?” The article
also quotes the Landlord asserting that his statements were in accordance with
his freedom of speech and saying that JG is a liar. The article quotes the
Landlord asserting that he intends to fight the decision and he does not intend
to satisfy the order. 
20.   The Tenants did not request any monetary remedy for the statements
made in this article, so none will be ordered. 
The Landlord damaged JG’s bicycle
21.   The HRTO order makes explicit findings about this issue and part of
the remedy awarded is in relation to this issue. This issue is therefore barred
by issue estoppel, which is a branch of the doctrine of res judicata.
22.  
Issue estoppel precludes a
litigant from raising issues in a proceeding that were already adjudicated in a
previous proceeding. The principles behind the doctrine of issue estoppel are
that litigation should have finality (it should not be allowed to continue
indefinitely), inconsistent results should be avoided, judicial resources
should not be wasted on duplicative claims, and parties should not be permitted
to harass one another with duplicative claims.
 
23.  
The criteria for issue
estoppel, as per Richard A. Feldman in his Residential
Tenancies, 9th ed. (Toronto: Carswell, 2009) at p.90,
are:
 
i)            
the same question (issue) currently being
advanced has already been decided in an earlier proceeding;
 
ii)           
that earlier decision was final; and
 
iii)          
the parties (or their
privies) are the same now as in that earlier proceeding.
 
22.   The criteria for issue estoppel are met here. 
The Landlord breached his maintenance obligations under s.20 of the
Act
23.   At the hearing the Tenants’ representative sought to raise a large
number of maintenance issues. However, several of these were addressed by the
HRTO order and so these are also barred by issue estoppel. However, the
Tenants’ representative also sought to raise a number of maintenance issues
that arose after the hearing that gave rise to the HRTO order. The date of that
hearing was May 8, 2017. Maintenance issues that arose or were still in
existence after May 8, 2017 are not barred by issue estoppel. 
24.   The Tenants raised the following maintenance issues that are not
barred by issue estoppel:
•       
Weeds in the backyard;
•       
Stairwell was dirty and was soiled with cat
urine;
•       
Ceiling light did not work;
•       
Railing on the stairwell was loose;
•       
Snow and ice were not removed from entryway; and
•       
Fire alarm malfunctioned.
Weeds
25.   At the hearing JG submitted photographs that she took in the summer
of 2017 showing the backyard of the residential complex. These photographs show
that the backyard was overgrown with so many weeds that the yard appears
unusable for any purpose. JG testified that the Tenants complained about the
weeds and the Landlord did nothing to address them. 
26.   The Landlord did not give any evidence to contest the Tenants’
evidence respecting the weeds.
27.   Based on the Tenants’ uncontested evidence, I am satisfied, on a
balance of probabilities, that the Landlord failed to maintain the backyard in
a good state of repair with respect to the excessive weeds. I therefore find
that the Landlord breached s.20 of the Act with respect to this issue. 
Stairwell not clean
28.   JG testified that the Landlord does not keep the stairwells in the
residential complex clean and that they often smell of cat urine.
29.   At the hearing JG submitted a copy of a City of Toronto order dated
December 8, 2017 indicating that “the property is not maintained and/or kept
clean in accordance with the standards” (‘first City order’). The first City
order does not say anything about stairwells. JG also submitted a copy of a
document entitled “Investigation Detail,” which repeats the same statement as
the first City order and indicates that this issue is closed. 
30.   The Landlord did not give any evidence to contest the Tenants’
evidence respecting the cleanliness of the stairwell.
31.   Based on the Tenants’ uncontested evidence, I am satisfied, on a
balance of probabilities, that the Landlord failed to maintain the stairwell a
reasonably clean condition. Although the City order does not specifically
mention the stairwell, JG testified that the stairwell was dirty and smelled
like urine. I therefore find that the Landlord breached s.20 of the Act with
respect to this issue. 
Ceiling light
32.   JG testified that in September 2017 the light in the ceiling above
the stairwell leading to the rental unit stopped working. JG testified that she
notified the Landlord about this problem in early October 2017. JG testified
that a new bulb was put in the light in January 2018 and that the light then
worked for three days but then it stopped working again. 
33.   The first City order notes that the ceiling light does not work. At
the hearing JG submitted a copy of a City of Toronto order dated March 27, 2018
(‘second City order’). The second City order also notes that the ceiling light
does not work.
34.   JG testified that the ceiling light started working again three days
before the hearing date.
35.   The Landlord did not give any evidence to contest the Tenants’
evidence respecting the ceiling light. 
36.   Based on the Tenants’ uncontested evidence, I am satisfied, on a
balance of probabilities, that the Landlord failed to maintain the ceiling
light in a good state of repair. I therefore find that the Landlord breached
s.20 of the Act with respect to this issue. 
 
Stairwell railing
37.   JG testified that on March 25, 2018, she heard a loud noise in the
hallway and went out to investigate. JG testified that she saw the other Tenant
RR in the stairwell and he said that he had missed a step on the way up the
stairs and grabbed the handrail, the handrail came out of the wall and he
tumbled down the stairs. JG testified that RR received medical attention after
his fall but JG did not submit any medical documentation to support this
testimony. 
38.   JG testified that RR reported the incident to the Landlord by text message.
At the hearing JG submitted a copy of the message to the Landlord. The message
is from RR and says he fell down the stairs the previous night and the railing
fell off. The message recommends that the Landlord put a light bulb in the
ceiling light and fix the railing. JG testified that RR did not receive a
response to this message from the Landlord. 
39.   The second City order states that the handrails on the stairwell are
not maintained in good repair and that there are holes in the walls of the
stairwell. 
40.   JG testified that the stairwell railing was repaired on April 3,
2018.
41.   The Landlord did not give any evidence to contest the Tenants’
evidence respecting the stairwell railing. 
42.   Based on the Tenants’ uncontested evidence, I am satisfied, on a
balance of probabilities, that the Landlord failed to maintain the stairwell
railing in a good state of repair. I therefore find that the Landlord breached
s.20 of the Act with respect to this issue.
Snow and ice not removed
43.   JG testified that the Landlord does not have snow or ice removed
from the walkways leading to the residential complex at all during the winter
and he does not apply salt to these walkways. JG testified that as a result of
the ice and snow on the walkways, two of her guests had slipped and fell on the
walkways this winter. 
44.   At the hearing JG submitted photographs that she took of the
walkways in January 2018. The photographs show a significant accumulation of
snow and ice on the walkway leading to the residential complex. JG testified
that this is what the walkway looked like all winter, except when the City of
Toronto ordered the Landlord to clear the walkway. 
45.   At the hearing JG submitted a copy of an “Investigation Detail”
indicating that the Landlord had been ordered to clear the exterior steps,
landings, walks, driveways, parking spaces, and ramps of snow and ice on
February 6, 2018. 
46.   WCT is a friend of JG. At the hearing WCT testified that she often
visits JG at the rental unit. WCT testified that throughout the past winter the
walkway to the residential complex was covered in a sheet of ice. WCT testified
that she fell twice in December 2017 while walking on the icy walkway. WCT
testified that she was not injured.
47.   The Landlord did not give any evidence to contest the Tenants’
evidence respecting the icy walkway.
48.   Based on the Tenants’ uncontested evidence, I am satisfied, on a
balance of probabilities, that the Landlord failed to remove ice and snow from
walkway in the winter months. I therefore find that the Landlord breached s.20
of the Act with respect to this issue.
Fire alarm
49.   JG testified that at 2:30am on February 5, 2018 the carbon monoxide/smoke
detector (‘detector’) in her unit started making a loud noise and woke her up. JG
testified that she notified the Landlord immediately and that he did not reply
to her. The detector is hardwired into the ceiling of the unit.
50.   JG testified that she contacted the fire department and asked if she
should be concerned. They sent some firefighters who inspected for a carbon
monoxide leak while the Tenant waited outside. The firefighters told JG that
they could not make the detector stop and they could not dismantle the
detector, as only the Landlord is allowed to dismantle it. 
51.   JG testified that the noise from the detector, which she described
as a loud chirping, continued through the following night. JG testified that on
February 6, 2018, a fire inspector attended, dismantled the detector, and gave
the Tenant two replacement battery powered detectors. JG testified that a man
who said he was acting for the Landlord attended at the unit on February 10,
2018 and installed a new hardwired detector.
52.   At the hearing JG submitted photographs of the malfunctioning
detector showing that it has a sticker on it indicating that it should be
replaced in 2017. JG also submitted a copy of notes that she took outlining the
chronology of the detector malfunction, including all visits and inspections to
address the issue.
53.   The Landlord did not give any evidence to contest the Tenants’
evidence respecting the malfunctioning detector.
54.   Based on the Tenants’ uncontested evidence, I am satisfied, on a
balance of probabilities, that the detector malfunctioned on February 5, 2018,
that while it was malfunctioning it made a loud irritating noise and that the
Landlord was notified of this around 2:00am that morning. It was reasonable for
the Landlord not to respond that morning as he was very likely asleep when JG
sent her text message. However, it was not reasonable to ignore JG’s message
and then send someone five days later, as the Landlord had been put on notice
in the message that the detector was making a loud irritating noise. I
therefore find that the Landlord breached s.20 of the Act with respect to this
issue.
 
Remedies for maintenance issues
55.   The Tenants’ representative submitted that the Tenants are entitled
to a rent abatement of 10% per month for the period of June 2017 to April 2018
for the issues regarding the stairwell (dirt/urine smell, broken light and
railing). JG testified that the light stopped working in September 2017 and
that she notified the Landlord in early October 2017 and it was fixed in early
April 2018, so this is the relevant time period for the light issue. JG gave no
evidence about the condition of the railing prior to RR’s fall on the stairs in
March 2018. JG testified that the issue of dirt and urine smell started some
time around or before 2016 and was ongoing to the date of the hearing.   
56.   After considering the duration of this problem
and the impact on the Tenants’ enjoyment and use of the rental unit, I find
that for all of these issues the Tenants are entitled to a rent abatement of 5%
per month for the period of early October 2017 through to and including early April 2018 (calculated
as $362.87, based on rent of $1,209.57) and for the dirt/urine smell issue they
are entitled to an additional 2% per month for the period of June 2017 through
to and including September 2017 (calculated as $95.90, based on rent of $1,198.76). The total rent abatement for stairwell issues is $458.77.
57.   The Tenants’ representative submitted that the Tenants are entitled
to a rent abatement of 5% per month for the period of June 2017 to August 2017
for the Landlord’s failure to maintain the backyard. This is reasonable, as the
Tenants’ evidence demonstrated that the backyard was unusable during this time.
The total abatement awarded for this issue is $179.81, based on rent of
$1,198.76.
58.   The Tenants’ representative submitted that the Tenants are entitled
to a rent abatement of 5% per month for the period of November 2017 to February
2018 for the Landlord’s failure to maintain the walkway free of ice and snow.
This is reasonable, as the Tenants’ evidence demonstrated that the walkway was
covered in ice during this time and that this posed a danger to themselves and
their guests (as manifested when WCT fell twice). The total abatement awarded
for this issue is $241.91, based on rent of $1,209.57.
59.   The Tenants’ representative made no submissions about a remedy for
the detector issue. However, JG’s notes outlining the chronology of the issue
includes claims for time spent cleaning up after visitors who were at the unit
inspecting or addressing the issue. I have interpreted this as a claim for a
rent abatement. I have found that it was not reasonable for the Landlord to
ignore the issue after the early morning of February 5, 2018; he ought to have
at least been in contact with the Tenant on the day of February 5, 2018 and
stopped the annoying noise by that night. It was fixed the following day. After considering the duration of this problem (one
day) and the impact on the Tenants’ enjoyment and use of the rental unit (lost
sleep and JG’s narrative states that it was very inconvenient for her to have
to stay home to meet the inspector who resolved the issue), I find that the
Tenants are entitled to a lump sum rent abatement of $100.00.
60.   JG’s narrative notes also claim compensation for lost income related
to staying home for follow-up inspections by Toronto Fire Services on February
9 and 23, 2018. From JG’s notes it is apparent that these claims are based on
the inspector’s conduct, over which the Landlord has no control. There will
therefore be no order that this compensation be paid by the Landlord.
61.   The total abatement awarded due to the Landlord’s breaches of s.20
of the Act is $980.49. This reduces the Tenants’ arrears to $218.27.
62.   The Tenants’ representative submitted that the Board should make an
order prohibiting the Landlord from harassing JG. The only evidence I heard
that the Landlord has ever harassed JG is the media article published after the
release of the HRTO decision. This does not establish habitual harassment and
so there will be no order prohibiting the Landlord from harassing JG. This is
not to say that the Landlord is permitted to engage in this kind of conduct,
which constitutes a breach of the Act and could result in further remedies
awarded against the Landlord in subsequent proceedings.
63.   The Tenants’ representative submitted that the Board should also
make an order requiring the Landlord to provide contact information for a person
who could respond more promptly to maintenance issues. Although this would be
prudent for the Landlord to do, the facts in this case do not establish such an
egregious neglect of maintenance obligations that such an order should be made.

64.   At the hearing the parties consented to an order that the Tenant may
make her rent payments to the Landlord’s legal representative electronically in
trust for the Landlord and that this arrangement will continue until the Tenant
is informed otherwise in writing. 
Section 83
65.   I have considered all of the disclosed circumstances in accordance
with subsection 83(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act'), and find that it would not be unfair to grant relief from eviction
pursuant to subsection 83(1) of the Act.
66.   The Landlord’s behaviour in disposing of the Tenants’ August 2017
rent cheque then serving an N4 notice could only have been intended to start
the eviction process without merit. Under these circumstances it would not be
fair to order eviction.
It is ordered that:
 
1.     
The Tenants may make their rent payments to the
Landlord’s legal representative electronically and the Landlord’s legal
representative will take these payments in trust for the Landlord. This
arrangement will continue until the Tenant JG is informed otherwise in writing.
2.     
The Tenants shall pay to the Landlord $218.27,
which represents the amount of rent owing up to April 30, 2018.
3.     
If the Tenants do not pay the Landlord the full
amount owing* on or before June 10, 2018, the Tenants will start to owe
interest.  This will be simple interest calculated from June 11, 2018 at 3.00%
annually on the balance outstanding.
4.     
The Board shall pay to the Landlord the amount
of $9,665.75 together with any accrued interest. *
 
May 10, 2018                                                                    _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Renée
Lang
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
79 St. Clair Avenue East, Suite
212, 2nd Floor
Toronto ON M4T1M6
 
This order contains all reasons
for the determinations and order made. No further reasons will be issued.
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 
* When the Board directs
payment-out, the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce will issue a cheque to the
appropriate party named in this order. The cheque will be in the amount
directed plus any interest accrued up to the date of this order.
 
 
 
 

