Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-12
File number:	
TSL-23906-21

Citation:	Couto v Harewood, 2022 CanLII 57916 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq318>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
69
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: TSL-23906-21
 
 



In the
  matter of:


UNIT 3, 124
EIGHTH STREET TORONTO ON
  M8V3C4


 




Between:


Oliver Couto


Landlord




 


 
and


 




 


Jason Harewood


Tenant



 
 
 
Oliver Couto
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Jason
Harewood (the 'Tenant') because the Landlord requires possession of the rental
unit for the purpose of residential occupation. The Landlord
also claimed compensation for each day the
Tenant remained in the unit after the termination date.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on December 7, 2021.
 
The Landlord’s Legal Representative Casey Massari, the Landlord and the Tenant’s
Legal Representative and the Tenant attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
The Landlord
served an N12 notice of termination for own use on August
26, 2021. The termination date was October 31, 2021.
 
2.    
The Landlord
has paid the compensation that was due per s. 48.1 of the Act.
 
3.    
The Landlord
testified regarding his intentions to reside in the rental unit.
 
4.    
The ground-floor rental unit is separated by a door with an adjoining unit,
for which the Landlord has also served an N12
notice of termination. The uncontested
testimony is that the Landlord will open the door between the two units and
occupy both. It was uncontested that
these two units were the only two in the complex that had not been renovated.
 
5.    
The Landlord
indicated that for this unit, the door to the backyard is currently locked
on both sides and the Tenant does not have a key to open, nor permission
to use the backyard. Further that from the inside the door is enclosed by a
closet.




 
6.    
The Landlord testified
that he intends to reside in the units as his principle residence so that he
could work in the backyard, creating a zodiac garden for his own use. The Landlord provided blueprints that
details his draft plans. The plans
illustrate that the current backyard would
be converted to sea container storage for tenants
and that a deck
will be built above them where the zodiacal pollinator garden is to be
constructed.
 
7.    
The Landlord
currently resides with his mother
and brother in a single family residence where he has been since about
2000.
 
8.    
The Landlord also
testified regarding other rental property that he owns that he has recently completed
renovations and had added pollinator gardens on the roof-top above the second story.
 
9.    
The Landlord
operates a commercial enterprise known as “The Bee Shop”, and that he has been on the Toronto pollinator
advisory committee.
 
10. 
Section 72(3) of the Act requires
that the Board determine the good faith of the Landlord
and that the Boar may consider
any relevant evidence. This determination must be that there is
good faith on a balance of probabilities.
 
11. 
I was not satisfied
on a balance of probabilities that the Landlord
intends to occupy
this rental unit in good faith. I
say this for the following reasons:
 
a.   
The Landlord’s hearing
regarding the adjoining rental unit, which was heard at the same time was not successful. I did not find it credible that the Landlord
would take whichever unit was
vacated, as that was contrary to his intentions to occupy both units.
 
b.   
I was not convinced
that the Landlord really intended work in the zodiacal pollinator garden, if the real intent is that the garden would be on a different
level than the rental
units.
 
c.   
The two ground floor
rental units had not been renovated, and in all the circumstances it was more likely these
units would be renovated and not occupied by the Landlord.
 
d.   
It is more likely
that the Landlord
is expanding his pollinator gardens
in support of his
commercial enterprise.
 
e.   
The Landlord admitted that the
current Ontario BEE legislation and regulations do not
permit been hives or pollinator gardens close to a residence and that his plans did not
removed that obstacle. Rather the
Landlord testified that he was hopeful that the statute and regulations would
be withdrawn and/or amended in the near future.
 
12.  Even if I am wrong in my determination that
that Landlord on a balance of probabilities does not have a genuine intent
to occupy this rental unit, I would
have granted relief
from eviction under s. 83 of the Act.




 
13.  Section
83 of the Act requires
that I take into consideration all of the circumstances of the
parties in order to determine if relief from eviction should be granted. I would have granted relief from eviction
for the following reasons:
 
a.   
In looking at the real
substance of the transaction of the Landlord’s
good faith, it has the appearance of being done more for commercial purposes
and not for an genuine residential use.
 
b.   
The Tenant testified
that the does not drive, nor own a vehicle and relies on public transit to get to work and medical appointments. His girlfriend receives
Ontario works, and the child’s
grandmother resides in the neighbourhood. They occasionally use the nearby food bank and
the family uses the nearby Lamp Community Centre. The Tenant also receives
treatment for his medical condition at the St Joseph clinic.
 
c.   
It was evident that the Tenant has ties to the neighbourhood and family that would be jeopardized if he had to vacate.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1. The Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
January 12, 2022 Date Issued
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor
Street, 1st Floor Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

