Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-12
File number:	
TSL-23125-21-RV

Citation:	Family FM Inc. v Rodney, 2022 CanLII 57868 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jq30f>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
21.2 of the
Statutory Powers Procedure Act
and the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TSL-23125-21-RV
 
 



In the matter
of:


B, 1143 O'CONNOR DR EAST YORK ON M4B2T5


 




Between:


Family FM Inc.


Landlord




 


 
And


 




 


Junior
Rodney


Tenant



 
 
Review Order
 
Family FM Inc.
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict Junior
Rodney (the 'Tenant') because the Tenant, another
occupant of the rental unit or a person the Tenant permitted in the residential
complex has seriously impaired the safety of any person.
 
This application was resolved by order TSL-23125-21 issued on December 8, 2021.
On January 5, 2022 the Landlord requested a review of the order.
A preliminary review of the review request
was completed without
a hearing.
 
Reasons:
 
1.    
The Landlord’s request for review
asserts both that the Landlord
was not reasonably able to participate in the hearing and that the order contains a
serious error.
 
2.    
The request
particularizes four issues,
although the last two are similar in nature and will
be considered together:
 
(1)  
the Member
restricted my cross-examination of the Tenant;
 
(2)  
the Member erred in what he considered hearsay
evidence when the statement
was written by the person who experienced same;
 
(3)  
the Member
did not take into consideration any of the written emails,
texts or letters from others
which spoke to their fear of the Tenant; and,




 
(4)  
the Member
did not take into consideration the Landlord’s evidence,
which backed up the written
statements of workers and other tenants as well as the Social Worker.
 
3.    
I have reviewed the
Member’s order, the record, the hearing recording and the submissions made in the request. These
reasons explain why I am not satisfied that there is a serious error in the order or that a serious
error occurred in the proceedings.
 
Not Reasonably Able to Participate
 
4.    
Subsection 209(2)
of the Act provides:
 
Without limiting
the generality of section 21.2 of the Statutory Powers Procedure Act,
the Board’s power to review a decision or order under that section may be
exercised if a party to a proceeding was not reasonably able to participate in the proceeding.
 
5.    
This ground
for review applies
to situations where
the party did not attend
the hearing: Board
Interpretation Guideline 8, Review of an Order at “Grounds for Review:
Not Reasonably Able to Participate”.
 
6.    
The Landlord’s agent
Mr. Frederick and the Landlord’s legal representative Mr. Mitchell attended the hearing. Mr. Frederick provided
evidence on behalf
of the Landlord and both Mr. Frederick and Mr. Mitchell
cross-examined the Tenant.
 
7.    
The Landlord
participated in the hearing and there is no basis
for the Landlord’s assertion that the Landlord
was not reasonably able to participate in the proceeding. This ground of review will therefore be dismissed.
 
Serious Error
 
8.    
According to Board Interpretation Guideline 8, above,
serious error includes
but is not limited to the following:
 
•        
An error
of jurisdiction. For example the order relies
on the wrong section of the RTA or exceeds the LTB's powers. This
issue need not have been raised in the original hearing;
 
•        
A procedural error which raises issues of natural justice;
 
•        
An unreasonable finding of fact on a material issue which would
potentially change the result
of the order;
 
•        
New evidence
which was unavailable at the time of the hearing and which
is potentially determinative of one or more central issues in dispute;




 
•        
An error
in law. The LTB will not exercise
its discretion to review an order interpreting the RTA unless the
interpretation conflicts with a binding decision of the Courts or is clearly
wrong and unreasonable; and,
 
•        
An unreasonable
exercise of discretion which results in an order outside
the usual range of remedies or results and where there are no reasons explaining the result.
 
Alleged Restriction of Cross-Examination
 
9.    
The Landlord
asserts that the Member restricted his cross-examination of the Tenant.
Interestingly, the Landlord’s cross-examination of the Tenant was split between
questions asked by the Landlord’s agent Mr. Frederick and questions
asked by the Landlord’s legal representative Mr. Mitchell.
 
10.  The right to adduce evidence by
cross-examination is not unlimited. Section 183 of the Act directs the Board to
adopt the most expeditious method of determining the questions arising in a
proceeding that affords to all persons directly affected by the proceeding an
adequate opportunity to know the issues and to be heard on the matter.
Subsection 15(1) of the Statutory
Powers Procedure Act, R.S.O. 1990, c. S.22 (the ‘SPPA’) provides the Board
with broad powers to admit relevant evidence, but also authorizes the Board to
exclude anything unduly repetitious. Section 23 of the SPPA provides the Board
with the authority to make such orders and give such directions in proceedings
before it as it considers proper to prevent abuse of its process. In this
regard, subsection 23(2) of the SPPA provided the Member with the authority to
reasonably limit further examination or cross-examination of a witness where it
is satisfied that the examination or cross- examination has been sufficient to
disclose fully and fairly all matters relevant to the issues in the proceeding.
 
11.  With respect to the cross-examination of
the Tenant by Mr. Frederick, some of the questions asked were not relevant to the allegations particularized on the N7 notice
of termination. The issue on application was whether the Tenant’s
conduct satisfied the legal test found at subsection 66(1) of the Act:
 
66 (1) A landlord
may give a tenant notice of termination of the tenancy
if,
 
(a)    
an act or omission of
the tenant, another occupant of the rental unit or a person permitted
in the residential complex by the tenant
seriously impairs or has seriously impaired the safety of
any person; and
 
(b)    
the act or omission
occurs in the residential complex.
 
12.  By way of an example,
Mr. Frederick queried
the Tenant about
his knowledge of the
lawful rent. This question was not relevant to the issue on application.
 
13.  Having reviewed the recording, I find that
at no point in time did the Member restrict Mr. Frederick from asking relevant
questions. Instead, any interventions by the Member were
to direct Mr. Frederick to rephrase questions in a way that addressed the relevant
issue. Furthermore, before the cross-examination of the Tenant concluded, the Member queried




 
whether Mr. Frederick had any more questions for the Tenant.
Mr. Frederick replied
that he thought that would be all for now.
 
14.  With respect to the cross-examination of
the Tenant by Mr. Mitchell, it is also the case that some of the questions
asked were not relevant to the allegations particularized on the N7 notice of
termination. One example is a question about whether the Tenant previously
received notices of termination respecting the tenancy. At no point in time did
the Member restrict Mr. Mitchell from asking relevant questions. Instead, any
interventions by the Member were directions to focus on the allegations
relevant to the proceeding before the Board. Furthermore, before the Landlord’s
cross-examination of the Tenant concluded, the Member queried
whether Mr. Mitchell
had any more questions
for the Tenant. Mr. Mitchell
replied that Mr. Frederick was telling
him not to ask any more
questions and that Mr. Frederick was the boss.
 
15.  My view is that any interventions by the
Member were proper. At the most, the Member directed the Landlord to
cross-examine the Tenant on relevant issues. There were no instances where the
Member refused to allow questions on relevant issues and the Member in fact
took steps to ensure that Mr. Frederick and Mr. Mitchell had a final
opportunity to ask questions before the cross-examination of the Tenant
concluded. Neither Mr. Frederick nor Mr. Mitchell availed themselves of this
opportunity and ultimately it was the Landlord’s decision to cease asking
questions. In these circumstances, there is no basis for the assertion that any
directions given by the Member during the cross-examination of the Tenant
restricted or prevented the Landlord from
fully and fairly disclosing all matters relevant to the issues in the
proceeding or denied the Landlord procedural fairness or natural justice. This
ground of review will therefore be dismissed.
 
Alleged Mischaracterization of Evidence as Hearsay
 
16.  The Landlord asserts
that the Board
erred in the characterization of certain evidence
as hearsay.
 
17.  The Court of Appeal in R. v. Badgerow, 2014 ONCA 272 (CanLII) explains
that although a universal
definition of hearsay evidence is elusive, hearsay is often identified by its
characteristics: (a) it is adduced
for the truth of its contents; and (b) there
is an absence of a contemporaneous opportunity to cross-examine the declarant.
 
18.  The Landlord introduced written statements authored
by several persons
who did not attend the hearing to provide direct
evidence. The Member expressly addressed the issue of hearsay evidence at
paragraphs 7-9 of the Board’s order:
 
The Landlord
submitted an email written by a tenant
outlining the impact
that the Tenant’s smoking has
had on her family. While the Board may admit hearsay, it
must be mindful of the inherent
dangers in doing
so, particularly given
that hearsay evidence can be
extremely unreliable. I have decided to admit the Landlord’s hearsay evidence
and deal with any indicia of unreliability as a matter of what weight to be
accorded to that evidence. As I will explain, I give it little weight because I
accept the Tenant’s oral evidence to the contrary.




 
The Tenant
denied smoking in the residential complex. The Tenant’s denial was unequivocal,
and I found him to be believable on this issue. Moreover, even if the Landlord had established that the Tenant smoked tobacco
and cannabis in his unit, there was insufficient evidence led
at the hearing to establish that the smoking seriously impaired the safety of
another person in the residential complex. This portion of the Landlord’s
application is also dismissed.
 
19.  The Landlord’s only witness, Mr. Frederick,
did not directly observe any of the incidents that were sufficiently
particularized on the N7 to meet the requirements of Ball v. Metro Capital
Property and Lockhurst (December 19, 2002), Toronto Docket No. 48/02 (Div.
Ct.) (‘Ball’). The written statements proffered by the Landlord,
including the written statement respecting the smoking issue, were adduced
for the truth of their contents. The authors of these statements were not
present at the hearing and there was therefore no contemporaneous opportunity
to cross-examine the authors of any of these statements. All of the written
statements the Landlord sought to rely upon meet the definition of hearsay
evidence and the Member did not err in so finding.
 
Alleged Failure to Consider Evidence
 
20.  As noted above,
the Landlord asserts
that the Member
did not take into consideration:
 
(1)  
any of the written
emails, texts or letters from others which spoke to their fear of
the Tenant; and,
 
(2)  
the Landlord’s evidence, which backed
up the written statements of workers and other tenants as well as the Social
Worker.
 
21. 
In Pavone v. Sniedzins, 2013 ONSC 2964 (CanLII) the Divisional Court held, at para. 5:
 
The Member’s
reasons are adequate
to allow appellate review and to demonstrate
that the Member considered the evidence and applied the appropriate test. The Member is not required to recite each
and every piece of evidence nor to draw credibility findings that are unnecessary. The problem was causation. On the facts, the Member found this had not been
proven.
 
22.  In this case, my conclusion is that the Member’s reasons
are adequate to allow review and to demonstrate that the Member
considered the evidence and applied the appropriate legal test.
 
23.  The Member correctly identified the legal
test and that it was the Landlord’s burden to prove the allegations
sufficiently particularized on the N7 notice of termination on the balance of
probabilities. The order itself clearly explains why the Member found that the
Landlord did not discharge this onus. The Landlord’s agent and witness
Mr. Frederick did not have direct knowledge of the
incidents particularized on the N7 for which there were sufficient particulars
to meet the requirements of to meet the requirements of Ball. The
Landlord sought to prove the allegations on the basis of hearsay evidence. The
Member cited the inherent dangers of hearsay evidence, found the Tenant
believable and accepted the Tenant’s testimony denying the Landlord’s
allegations.




 
24.  In my view, it is clear from the order that the Member in effect
gave more weight to the Tenant’s testimony which was subject
to cross-examination than Mr. Frederick’s evidence, which was based
on hearsay evidence, or the Landlord’s hearsay evidence,
which could not be subject to
cross-examination. Given the Board’s acceptance of the Tenant’s
evidence, it was not necessary for the Member to recite Mr. Frederick’s
testimony or the hearsay statements to allow meaningful review.
 
25.  The real substance of the Landlord’s
concern is the Member’s weighing of the evidence. However, as noted in Board
Interpretation Guideline 8, the Member’s findings of fact, including the
Member’s finding that the Tenant’s denials of the Landlord’s allegations were
credible, are entitled to significant deference. The Landlord’s review
submission does not articulate any reason for why I should find that the Member’s findings
of fact are unreasonable or that there is no rational connection between
the finings of fact and the evidence adduced at the hearing. This ground of
review will therefore be dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The request
to review order TSL-23125-21 issued on
December 8, 2021 is denied. The order is confirmed and remains
unchanged.
 
 
 




January 12, 2022 Date Issued
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor Toronto ON M7A 2G6



 
 
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board




 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

