Metadata:
Date:	2018-08-29
File number:	
TSL-98005-18
	TSL-98005-18
Citation:	TSL-98005-18 (Re), 2018 CanLII 120822 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/hwmc8>, retrieved on 2023-05-16	https://canlii.ca/t/hwmc8
Content:


Order under Section 69
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TSL-98005-18
 










 
 

P.W
(the 'Landlord') applied for an order to terminate the tenancy and evict D.D
(the 'Tenant') because the Tenant did not pay the rent that the Tenant owes.
 
This
application was heard in Toronto on August 27, 2018.
 
The Landlord attended the hearing with the building’s
superintendent J.O (“JO”) and was self-represented.  The Tenant attended the
hearing assisted by duty counsel, B.A.J (“BAJ”). The Tenant’s partner, S.B
(“SB”) provided oral evidence for the Tenant.
 
At the hearing the Tenant raised the following issues pursuant to
section 82 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'): 
 
•       
The
condition of the living room ceiling;
•       
The
condition of the bathroom ceiling.
 
Preliminary Issue:
 
1.   
BAJ, on behalf of the Tenant, raised the preliminary issue that
the Landlord had not provided the Tenant, as required, with an address, as
required under s.12 of the Act.  Accordingly, BAJ asked that the application be
dismissed, or alternatively converted to an L9 application.
 
2.    After
hearing oral evidence from both parties, as indicated orally at the hearing, I
was not persuaded on a balance of probabilities – based upon the evidence
provided, that the Landlord had not provided an address to the Tenant as
required under s.12.   As the Landlord testified orally, the original written
lease included an address for the Landlord.   Neither party had a copy of this
document for my review.
 
3.    Based
upon the evidence provided at the hearing, I was not satisfied on a balance of
probabilities that the Landlord failed to comply with s.12 of the Act.
 
4.    As
such, as stated at the hearing, the Tenant’s preliminary motion was dismissed
and a hearing on the merits followed.
 
Determinations:
 
1.      The
Tenant remains in possession of the residential unit, which is an apartment in
a low-rise building in Toronto.
 
2.      The
Tenant has not paid the total rent he was required to pay for the period from
July 1, 2018 to August 31, 2018.  Because of the arrears, the Landlord served a
Notice of Termination effective August 8, 2018.
 
3.      The
Landlord collected a rent deposit of $730.92 from the Tenant and this deposit
is still being held by the Landlord.
 
4.      Interest
on the rent deposit is owing to the Tenant for the period from January 1, 2018
to August 8, 2018.
 
5.      The
Landlord submitted a written summary of his financial claims at the hearing,
stating that the Tenant owes $381.84 in arrears of rent and $190.00 for the
filing fee.
Section 82 Issues
Evidence of SB for the
Tenant
6.      The
Tenant, through BAJ, did not dispute the amounts claimed by the Landlord at the
hearing.  However, the Tenant did seek an abatement of rent based upon holes in
the ceiling of both the living room and bathroom of the unit. 
 
7.      The
Tenant’s partner, SB, testified in this respect at the hearing.
 
8.      SB
described that she has lived in the unit for 5 years with the Tenant.  She
testified that in June 2018, she reported to the Landlord’s on-site
representative, JO (who lives in the building), that there is a large hole in
the ceiling of the living room (which has apparently been present there for a
long time).
 
9.      SB
outlined that recently, this hole has worsened, such that dust and “chunks
of cement” have begun falling into the living room. 
 
10.   SB
continued that JO attended the unit and acknowledged that the Landlord was
going to do the repairs.  She recalled that the Landlord sought the Tenant’s
consent to enter the unit to fix the problem but the Tenant denied entry
because the couple had family visiting on the date proposed by the Landlord for
the contractor’s visit.
 
11.   SB
testified that the ceiling in the bathroom of the unit also has had a hole in
it for as long as she can remember.  She described that this hole previously
leaked water, but now just appears to be on the verge of caving in.
 
12.   SB
rejected the Landlord’s suggestion that the couple had failed to consent to a
date for the Landlord’s contractors to repair the holes.
 
13.   A
picture of the condition of the living room and bathroom ceilings was submitted
into evidence at the hearing.
Evidence
of the Landlord
14.   The Landlord admitted that he does not live at the building but
engages JO to collect rent and represent him on site.  
 
15.   The Landlord did not dispute the existence of the ceiling holes
referenced by SB in her evidence and despite the presence of JO at the hearing
site on the day of the hearing (he was excluded from the hearing room due to
repeated interruptions), declined to call JO to give evidence.
 
16.   The Landlord noted that despite a recent hearing in April 2018
with respect to rent arrears, the Tenant had failed to raise any issues
regarding the ceiling in the unit at that time.
 
17.   He submitted a letter to the Tenant dated July 23, 2018 in which
it is noted that the Tenant refused entry to the Landlord’s contractors on June
20, 2018 because he had family member’s visiting.   This letter records that
despite the Landlord’s requests, the Tenant has failed to provide any dates on
which the Landlord’s contractors can attend the unit and fix the ceiling. 
 
18.   The Landlord acknowledged in cross-examination that he did not
serve the Tenant with any notice of entry under s.27 of the Act to carry out
the ceiling repairs.
Analysis
19.   The evidence before me reveals that there is no dispute between
the parties that the ceiling in the unit is in disrepair in two places: the
living room and the bathroom.  The living room hole is obviously more serious.
 
20.   The Tenant’s position, as advanced by BAJ, is that the Tenant is
entitled to a rent abatement equivalent to, or exceeding the Landlord’s claim. 
Given the uncontested evidence by SB that problems with the ceiling were
reported to the Landlord’s agent in June 2018, BAJ argued that 50% rent abatement
is appropriate for this two month period.  In that 50% of the Tenant’s
$730.00/month rent for two months exceeds the claim by the Landlord in this
application, BAJ argued, the application should be dismissed.  Further, the
Board should direct the Landlord to complete the repairs with proper notice of
entry as required under the Act.
 
21.   The Landlord did not dispute the problems with the ceiling in the
unit but contended that a) the Tenant had failed to raise these disrepair
issues at the hearing of the Landlord’s previous L1 application; and b) despite
the Landlord’s attempt to repair the issues on June 20, 2018, the Tenant had
both refused entry at the time and to date, has not got back to him to provide
any other dates for the Landlord’s contractors to re-attend.
 
22.   The Landlord’s duty under s.20 of the Act to maintain and repair
exists notwithstanding the Tenant’s failure to provide dates to the Landlord
for his contractor to attend.  Here, the Landlord knows that the unit has a
hole in its living room ceiling.  The unchallenged evidence before me from SB
is that this hole has “chunks” of cement falling from it.
 
23.   It is also clear that the Landlord sent a contractor to the unit
on June 20, 2018 – in the absence of a Notice of Entry under the Act.  The
Tenant, who had family visiting, refused entry. In follow-up, the Landlord sent
a letter to the Tenant dated July 23, 2018.  In this letter, among other
things, the Landlord wrote: “There will be no repairs to the ceiling
until you give me dates for the repairs” [emphasis added].
 
24.   The Landlord’s approach places the onus on the Tenant to initiate
the process of repair for a problem in the unit which is a health hazard from
falling debris.  Further, the undisputed evidence before me is that the Tenant
is a person with a mental health disability.  It is obvious from his evidence
at the hearing that this disability imposes challenges on his ability to
communicate clearly.
 
25.   The hole in the living room depicted in evidence is large.   The
Landlord’s agent/representative, JO, has seen it.  Unlike the bathroom hole,
which shows the gradual wearing-away of plaster, the photograph of the living
room shows a quite sizeable overhead area in which there is no ceiling at all,
and the boards of the floor of the unit above are fully exposed.  Further, it
is clear that pieces of material, including what SB described as “chunks of
cement” are falling out of it, creating a hazard for the Tenant, SB and
their guests. 
 
26.   As noted by Member Rodrigues in his decision in SOL-56227-15
(Re), 2015 CanLII 34318 (ON LTB), a living room is “…a core part of any home”
(para. 22).
 
27.   In my view, the Landlord’s failure to address this problem in the
living room in the unit, and his continued refusal to do so, notwithstanding
the hazard caused to the Tenant, SB and their guests, amounts to a serious
breach of the Landlord’s maintenance and repair responsibilities under s.20 of
the Act insofar as it creates an ongoing hazard to health and safety which
makes refusal of the Landlord’s application mandatory under s.83(3)(a) of the
Act which reads:
 
Without restricting the
generality of subsection (1), the Board shall refuse to grant the application
where satisfied that,
 
(a)  the landlord is in serious
breach of the landlord’s responsibilities under this Act
or of any material covenant in the tenancy agreement.
 
28.   My finding in paragraph 27 above is based upon the totality of
evidence before me, including the largely uncontested evidence from SB, which I
find credible, that “chunks of cement” are falling from the hole in the living
room ceiling.
 
29.   I
have considered all of the disclosed circumstances as required under subsection
83(2) the Act,
including the nature of the Landlord’s breach of the Act as described above,
the failure of the Landlord to take steps to address this breach and his
continuing refusal to address particularly the hole in the ceiling and find
that, as the Landlord was in serious breach of his statutory obligations at the
time this application was heard, eviction must be refused pursuant to subsection 83 (3)(a)
of the Act. 
 
30.   Accordingly, the Landlord’s application will be dismissed.
 
31.   Further, as noted by BAJ, an order will issue directing the
Landlord to repair both the living room hole and the bathroom hole.
It is ordered that:
 
1.      The
Landlord’s application is dismissed.
 
2.      The Landlord
shall repair the hole in the living room ceiling and the bathroom ceiling by
September 9, 2018 after providing the Tenant with a Notice(s) of Entry in
accordance with the Act.
 
3.      If the
Landlord does not do the work required under paragraph 2 above of this Order on
or before September 9, 2018, then the Tenant may deduct 10% from the rent due
each month for the period commencing October 1, 2018
until the repairs to the holes in the bathroom and living room are completed.
August 29, 2018                                                              _______________________
Date Issued                                                                      Roderick
Flynn
                                                                                                                           Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
79 St. Clair Avenue East, Suite 212, 2nd Floor
Toronto ON M4T1M6
 
If you have any questions about this order, call 416-645-8080 or
toll free at 1-888-332-3234.
 

