Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-26
File number:	
TST-15704-20

Citation:	Kleef v Chu, 2022 CanLII 86559 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js1jg>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 135
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TST-15704-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


1709, 51 EAST LIBERTY STREET TORONTO ON M6K3P8


 




Between:


Steven Sean Dagenais Kleef Kaitlyn Elizabeth Pauly


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Rebecca Chu


Landlord



 
 
 
Steven Sean Dagenais Kleef and Kaitlyn
Elizabeth Pauly (the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that Rebecca Chu (the 'Landlord') has
collected or retained money illegally.
 
Steven Sean Dagenais Kleef and Kaitlyn
Elizabeth Pauly (the 'Tenants')
also applied for an order determining that Rebecca Chu (the
'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with them,
entered the rental unit illegally and substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants
or by a member of their household.
 
Steven Sean Dagenais Kleef and Kaitlyn
Elizabeth Pauly (the 'Tenants')
also applied for an order determining that Rebecca Chu (the
'Landlord') failed to meet the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety,
housing or maintenance standards.
 
This application was heard via video conference on October 26, 2021.
The Tenants and the Landlord attended the hearing.
Determinations:
 
T1 Application:
 
1.    
In their T1 application, the Tenants made the following
claims:
 
•        
The Landlord overcharged the Tenants illegal
rent in the amount of $2.04;
•        
The Landlord was paid $175.00 as an illegal
charge which was not returned to the Tenants;




 
•        
The Landlord did not use the Tenant’s last month’s rent deposit to pay for the
last rental period of the tenancy and did not return the deposit to the Tenants
in the amount of $2,196.00;
•        
The Landlord owes the Tenants interest
on the last month’s rent deposit in the amount of $77.43.
 
2.     The Tenants moved
into the rental
unit on May 1, 2018 and vacated on April 21, 2020.
Prior to the tenancy commencing, the Tenants paid a last month’s rent deposit
in the amount of $2,157.00. Rent then
increased to $2,196.00 on May 1, 2019.
 
Overcharge of rent:
 
3.    
The Tenants state that the Landlord
rounded up a rent increase by $.17 per month so that $2.04 was overcharged to the
Tenants during a twelve month period.
 
4.     Notwithstanding that the Tenants agreed at the hearing
that they are abandoning this claim, pursuant to section 207(4) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, (the
‘Act’): “The Board shall not
make an order for the payment of an amount of money if the amount is less than
the prescribed amount”. As the
prescribed amount set out in Ontario Regulation 516/06 section 58 is $5.00,
no order will be made with respect
to the Tenant’s claim that the Landlord overcharged the Tenants.
 
 
Illegal charge (Key Deposit):
 
5.    
The Tenants testified that they provided
a key deposit in the amount of $175.00 to the
Landlord at the commencement of the tenancy and it has not been returned to
them.
 
6.     The Landlord confirmed that she was holding onto a key
deposit of $175.00 which she collected from the Tenants when the tenancy
commenced and has not returned it to the Tenants. The Landlord shall pay $175.00 to the Tenants representing the
key deposit.
 
Last month’s rent deposit:
 
7.    
The Tenants testified that they
paid a last month rent deposit when they commenced the tenancy on May 1, 2018
in the amount of $2,157.00 which was applied for the month of April, 2019. The Tenants
then provided the Landlord with a
new last month’s rent deposit in the amount of $2,196.00 on
April 8, 2019 (taking into account a rent increase) which was used for the
month of April, 2020.
 
8.     The Tenants confirmed that they pre-paid
rent for March,
2020 via post-dated cheque, which the Landlord applied towards the March, 2020
rent.
 
9.     The Tenants told the
Landlord by email communication that they were vacating the rental
unit as at April 30, 2020 on March 17, 2020.
The Tenants confirmed that although they were not residing in the rental
unit, they had possession of the unit until April 21, 2020 when the keys to the
rental unit were returned.




 
10.  The Tenants stated that the last month’s rent deposit
of $2,196.00 was applied by the Landlord for the month of April, 2020 but
because they did not reside in the rental unit as
at February 28, 2020 due to a flooding event, the Landlord owes the return of
last
month’s rent as they claim it should not have been applied and should have been
returned to them.
 
11.  The Tenants provided just over one month’s notice to
the Landlord that they were vacating the rental unit. Pursuant to the Act and as the lease was initially a
yearly tenancy and then reverted to a monthly tenancy, the Tenants were to
provide 60 days notice to the Landlord that they were vacating the rental unit and that date shall be on the
last day of a rental period.
 
12.  The Landlord testified that she did not receive
proper notice from the Tenants stating that they were vacating the rental unit but that the Tenants had
already paid rent for March, 2020 when the Tenants provided their notice to
vacate on March 17, 2020. As the
Tenants advised they were vacating the rental unit as at the end of April,
2020, the Landlord applied the Tenants’ last month rent deposit for April,
2020.
 
13.  Based on the evidence and submissions that were introduced at the hearing,
I do not find it
appropriate to state that the tenancy was terminated effective February 28,
2020, as the Tenants requested. I say this because the Tenants had possession
of the rental unit, they
still accessed the rental unit and did not return the keys to the rental unit
until April 21, 2020. The Tenants are required to pay (and in fact, they did
pay) the Landlord rent for March, 2020. The Tenants
are therefore entitled
to rely on the last month rent deposit
to pay for the rent owing for April, 2020.
 
14.  Based on the evidence and submissions from both
parties and on a balance of probabilities, I find that the last month rent deposit
was properly applied for the last month
of tenancy for April, 2020.
 
Interest:
 
15.  The Tenants state that the Landlord owes interest from the last month’s rent deposits.
 
16.  The Tenants state that the Landlord did not pay them
interest on their last month’s rent deposit for the period of May 1, 2018 to
April 1, 2019 on the amount of $2,157.00 and also interest was not paid for the period of April
8, 2019 to April
21, 2020 on the amount of $2,196.00.
 
17.  The Landlord states
that as she applied
the last month
rent deposit within
a year period, no interest should be paid.
 
18.  Section 106(6) of the
Act states: “a Landlord of a rental
unit shall pay interest to the
tenant annually on the amount of the rent deposit at a rate equal to the
guideline determined under section 120 that is in effect at the time payment
becomes due”.
 
19.  Landlords are required
to pay interest on a last month’s
rent deposit to a tenant
annually pursuant to s. 106(6) of the Act so if the deadline for
payment arrives and the Landlord




 
does not pay the interest or use it to top up the deposit then at that point in time the Landlord starts to illegally retain
the interest.
 
20.  Technically, the Landlord
should not have applied
the last month’s rent at the end of each rental term as the lease agreement
reverted to a monthly tenancy but there is no dispute that the rent was used to
cover certain months during the tenancy. The
point of interest is that the Landlord is holding the last month’s rent for the
year but in this case, the last month’s rent deposit was applied before the end
of the one year period.
 
21.  Based on the evidence and submissions at the hearing,
the Tenants paid $2,157.00 to
the Landlord representing a last month’s
rent deposit on May
1, 2018 which
was applied on April 1, 2019.
Interest at 1.8% for that period totals $35.63. The Tenants next paid
$2,196.00 to the Landlord on April 8, 2019 which was applied on April 1, 2020. Interest
at 1.8% for that second period totals
$38.88. The Tenants are entitled
to interest on the last month’s rent deposits they provided to the Landlord. The Landlord shall pay to the Tenants the
total interest owing in the amount of $74.51.
 
T2 Application
 
22.  The issue to be determined by the Board is whether the
Landlord illegally entered the rental unit, substantially interfered with their
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or complex or with the reasonable enjoyment of a member of their
household and whether the
Landlord harassed, coerced, obstructed, threatened or interfered with them.
 
23.  For the reasons
below, the Tenants’
application will be dismissed.
 
Illegal
Entry
 
24.  The rental unit had a flood on February 27, 2020 after a toilet overflowed when the toilet got clogged with toilet paper. The exact cause of the flood is hotly
contested as the Tenants claim it was due to a faulty valve in the toilet but the Landlord
claims it was due
to the negligence of the Tenants.
 
25.  The Landlord emailed
the Tenants on March
2, 2020 providing notice that she would
be attending the rental
unit on March 3, 2020 to
view the damage to the rental unit and
that an insurance adjuster would visit the rental unit on
March 4, 2020. The Tenants had
no evidence that any illegal entry actually took place on the alleged dates
other than an email communication from the Landlord dated March 6, 2020 which
states “I visited the unit a few days ago. My
insurance adjuster has done her work there too”.
 
26.  The Tenants further state that the Landlord attended
the rental unit illegally on March 7, 2020 possibly with a plumber at 8:45pm.
The Landlord’s notice stated that she may or may not attend at the rental unit
as it depended on when the plumber was available to affect repairs. Although
there was notice provided by the Landlord for entry, the Tenants explained that the Landlord
illegally entered the rental unit as no specific time was stated of when the contractor/plumber was
to attend the rental unit.




 
27.  Finally, the Tenants state that a notice of entry
received from the Landlord on March 11, 2020
stated that the Landlord
would attend the rental unit between the hours of 3:00pm to 9:00pm. The Tenants state
that a 6 hour time period is too long and is
inappropriate thus it was an illegal entry.
 
28.  Section 25 of the Residential Tenancies Act,
2006 says a Landlord may enter a rental unit
only in accordance with section 26 or 27. Section 26 relates to entries where written
notice is not required; section 27 is about entry on notice.
 
29.  While the Landlord is required to provide notices of
entry in compliance with the Act, the Tenants are also obligated to
mitigate their losses by co-operating with the Landlord’s attempts to resolve
the maintenance issues. On the
occasions complained of, I find that the Landlord attempted to determine damage
to the rental unit due to an emergency flooding event and to conduct repairs in
a timely manner. The Tenants’
complaints of entries that the Landlord was not following the letter of the law would have only
served to further delay any outstanding repairs
in the rental unit. As a result,
the remedy pertaining to illegal entry will not be
ordered and this portion of the application is dismissed.
 
 
Substantial Interference and Harassment:
 
30.  Section 22 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) states:
 
A landlord shall not at any time
during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit and before the day on which an
order evicting the tenant is executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all
usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.
 
31.  Section 23 of the Act
states: “a landlord
shall not harass,
obstruct, coerce, threaten
or interfere with a tenant”.
 
32.  There is no definition of “harassment” under
the Act but generally speaking harassment
is usually considered to be a course of conduct that a reasonable person knows or ought to know would be unwelcome.
 
33.  The conduct need not be more than one instance and a
tenant is not required to demonstrate a pattern
of behavior in order to show that a landlord
has breached the Act.
 
Inspections:
 
34.  In the Tenants’ T2 application, the Tenants state that
the Landlord did not deliver any notices of entry for inspections. For the period between September 27 to
December 4, 2019, the evidence
was that there was no definitive response
from the Landlord
that she would be attending
the rental unit on a specific date or time which the Landlord then subsequently
cancelled:




 
•        
September 27, 2019: Landlord
stated would come by in October during
an inspection but date was not specified;
•        
October 28, 2019: Landlord
emailed Tenants stating
could not come by in the next two weeks but “most probably” would
come November 14.
•        
November 12, 2019: Tenants
emailed Landlord seeking
clarification if the Landlord
was coming by for an inspection. The Landlord replied
“most probably, I will come either
next Monday or Thursday”.
•        
November 18, 2019: Landlord
emailed Tenants “will be coming
some time next week….with an advance notice”.
•        
December 4, 2019 – notice of entry for December 5, 2019 was provided by the
Landlord.
 
35.  With respect to periods as set out above, there were
actually no inspections that took place but for an entry where notice was
provided on December 4, 2019. For the
period between September 27 to December 4, 2019, the Tenants could have gone
about their daily life activities as no date was confirmed between the Landlord
and the Tenants. The Landlord
proposed dates for attendance at the rental unit but stated that
advance notice would be provided to the Tenants.
 
36.  Based on the evidence and submissions at the hearing
and on a balance of probabilities,
the Board finds that as there was not a specific date arranged for an
inspection, there was no substantial interference to the Tenants.    The
Tenants have failed to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that the Landlord
substantially interfered with their enjoyment of the rental unit with respect to proposed scheduling of inspections and attendances at the
rental unit between September 27 to December 4, 2019.
 
Air filters:
 
37.  The Tenants testified that emails sent by the Landlord were threatening, interfered with the enjoyment of the rental unit and created negativity on
the quality of their life The Tenants
found the Landlord’s emails regarding the changing of the air filters on the
furnace to be consistently nagging
and the Landlord
falsely accused the Tenants of not
looking after the rental unit.
 
38.  The Tenants testified that the Landlord required the Tenants to change the air filters
on the furnace on a very frequent basis
which substantially interfered with their reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit. At times, the Tenants
were changing the air filters
monthly due to construction
in the adjacent unit. The Tenants
stated that to change the air filter
they would open the door to the furnace, remove the old filter and put in a new
one. There were some occasions where the Landlord supplied the air filters and
other occasions where the Tenants provided them. The Tenants stated that it was not their responsibility to
change the air filters on the furnace but that it was the Landlord’s responsibility.
 
39.  Based on the evidence and submissions before the
Board, the Landlord sent emails to the Tenants regarding the changing of air
filters on April 8, 9, 11, September 27, November 18, December 4, 2019 and on March 17 and 20, 2020. I find that these emails




 
were reminders to the Tenants to change the air filters
and sought confirmation that the air filters
had in fact been replaced.
 
40.  While the Landlord was ensuring the air filters were
changed and was attempting to mitigate any possible furnace issues due to the
Tenants having a dog and due to increased dust from construction taking
place in nearby
units, I am satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that any
interference or harassment complained of by the Tenants regarding the
replacement of air filters in the furnace and reminder emails from the Landlord
were minimal, does not rise to the level of it being substantial as is the
intent of the Act and I do not believe these communications would be
considered to be harassing, threatening or interfering.
 
Threats and Coercion:
 
41.  The Tenants state that they felt they were coerced by
the Landlord to stay in the rental unit and abide by the lease following a
flood event because the Landlord told them they would then be sued for ending
the lease and for damages from the flood. The
Landlord testified that she felt the Tenants should not be allowed to end the
lease as she was working with others
to fix the outstanding repairs
and the damage
from the flood that was caused by the Tenants negligence.
 
42.  The Tenants state that the Landlord stated in email communications
that if the Tenants chose to leave the tenancy without
fulfilling their responsibilities, the Landlord has to go through formal legal procedures without
a choice.
 
43.  A definition of coercion found in the dictionary states
that coercion generally
means to impose ones will on
another by means of force or threats.
 
44.  I am persuaded that the Landlord made the statements
as described by the Tenants. However, I am not persuaded that these statements
constituted a significant threat or some form of interference, coercion, or
obstruction. I do not find the circumstances described amounts to coercion as
meant by the Act, in particular, that the Landlord coerced the Tenants
into doing something against their wishes. With
regards to the threat of legal action, the Landlord would have a right to
commence an action if she chose to. I do not find that to be a threat but more of a warning. I am therefore satisfied that the email
communications do not rise to the level of threats or coercion.
 
T6 Application:
 
45.  The issue in this application is whether the Landlord has maintained the rental unit in a good state of repair and fit for
habitation in accordance with section 20 of the Act.
 
46.  Section 20 of the
Act states:
 
A landlord is responsible for
providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in it, in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with
health, safety, housing and maintenance standards.




 
47.  The Tenants seek relief for out-of-pocket expenses
they incurred for private parking (parking was not included with the rental
unit), hydro costs and internet costs as they were not residing in the rental
unit and able to enjoy those services during the months of March and April,
2020. The Tenants also seek
reimbursement of the time they spent on phone
calls to their insurance company,
to the Board, to legal personnel, to municipal by- law authorities and their time in
responding to the Landlord’s claims.
 
48.  In the case Onyskiw v. CJM Property Management, 2016 ONCA
477 (Onyskiw) (CanLII), the Court of Appeal for Ontario determined that a contextual approach should be adopted
when considering a landlord’s potential breach of subsection 20(1) of the Act
and a breach will not be found if the landlord’s response to a maintenance
issue was reasonable in the circumstances.
 
49.  The Tenants state that a flood occurred on February 27, 2020 at approximately 10:30 pm
as a result of a faulty fill valve which did not shut off at the proper water
level while the toilet was clogged with toilet paper.     Unfortunately, no-one was home when this occurred
which resulted in the toilet overflowing and water spreading throughout
portions of the rental unit. The
Tenants state that they attempted to notify the Landlord of the flood that
night but were unable to reach her. However,
property management did attend and emergency plumbing services arrived at
approximately 12:30 in the morning to perform emergency services. The Tenants
advised that they were finally able to reach the Landlord in the late morning
hours the next day, February 28, 2020, who authorized the emergency restoration
company to perform the necessary work and also contacted her insurance company.
 
50.  The Landlord submits that she was not aware of any
alleged issue with the fill valve on the toilet and denies the valve was the cause of the toilet overflowing, rather it was due to the neglect of the Tenants. The
Landlord attended the rental unit until March 3, 2020 as she received
photographs of the damage, contracted her insurer and also arranged for
emergency services to be performed by contractors.
 
51.  The Tenants claim that as a result of the flood, it
rendered the rental unit unhabitable for two months at which time, they then
vacated the rental unit. They claim
that due to the drywall being cut 12” from the floor exposing the inside
plumbing and electrical components with screws and nails inside the walls, it
made the unit unlivable and was a hazard to their dog as the exposed area was
at his height. The Tenants also claim that the floorboards were allegedly
warped and drywall dust was
still present in the rental unit. However, the Tenants
confirmed that the kitchen, en-suite
bathroom and living
room were functional but that
their living room items had been packed up and stored off site while their
couch, desk and other living room furniture were disposed of.
 
52.  The Tenants testified that their insurance company paid for hotel accommodations for 4-5 days
immediately after the flood and then covered approximately two months of expenses associated with accommodations in
another condominium until mid April.
 
53.  The Landlord
denies that the rental unit was unlivable, the flood affected
only a portion of the unit,
the floors were cleaned, sanitized and safe for people to live in. The Landlord




 
stated that the flooring
did not have to be replaced
and that the damage was from clean water.
 
54.  The Landlord stated
that she did everything she could to arrange for contractors to attend
the property to repair the unit in a timely manner. The Landlord testified that she had a very difficult time in
securing contractors to perform the necessary repairs to the rental unit due to
the COVID pandemic. The Landlord
stated that she contacted numerous contractors
but that they were already booked, some did not attend the property although they initially claimed they
would and others did not reply to her inquiries. The Landlord admitted to being very cautious with her choice in contractors and found it very difficult to find contractors to
attend the rental property.
 
55.  The Landlord stated that the delay in repairing the
rental unit was due to the COVID pandemic and government imposed lockdowns made it very difficult to retain qualified contractors.
 
56.  Whether or
not the Tenants actually contributed
or caused the flood, subsection 20(1) of the Act does not permit a
Landlord to refuse to maintain the rental unit on the grounds that the Tenants
may have caused the damage. In any
event, the Landlord was obliged to
conduct repairs in a timely manner regardless of the cause of the disrepair and
was free to pursue those costs of the repairs through
her own application to the Board should
she believe that the Tenants wilfully or negligently caused undue damage to the
premises.
 
57.  In accordance with Onyskiw, a breach may not be found if the Landlord’s response was
reasonable in the circumstances
 
58.  The evidence before the Board was that emergency
contractors attended the rental unit within hours of the flood being
reported and that remedial work was commenced. There was
insufficient evidence regarding the condition of the floors
after the flood and the final work to
repair the remaining items in the rental unit proved quite difficult to
complete largely due to the COVID pandemic and the government imposed
lockdowns. Further, while the rental unit had portions of components exposed
due to the removal of the drywall along the bottom of the wall, any drywall
dust could have been swept or vacuumed and the unit was cleaned, it would not
have rendered the rental unit uninhabitable.
 
59.  I am satisfied that the Landlord’s response was
reasonable in the circumstances considering
that this event took place right at the beginning of the COVID pandemic
when numerous government imposed lockdowns were initiated and
construction was quite limited as a result. I
am further satisfied that due to the COVID pandemic, the Landlord would have
experienced significant difficulty in retaining contractors to attend the
rental unit to complete the remedial repairs from the flood.
 
60.  In the Tenant’s
opinion, they felt the rental
unit uninhabitable due to their belief that the rental unit was not cleaned to their
standards and that the exposed bottom portion on some of the walls
from the removed
drywall posed a danger to themselves and to their




 
dog.
 
61.  Ultimately, I find that the Tenants failed to
demonstrate that the Landlord’s breach of duties to maintain the rental unit
caused more than minimal disruption to their ability to reside in the rental
unit, let alone render the rental unit uninhabitable for two months as they have suggested. The Tenants sought
reimbursement of parking,
internet and hydro expenses and also sought payment
representing their time to remedy this issue.
I find
that the Landlord’s response to
affect the repairs was appropriate in light of the extenuating circumstances
due to the pandemic and therefore the Landlord did not breach section
20(1) of the Act. Based on the evidence, submissions and on a balance
of probabilities, no abatement or other remedy should be ordered. As a result, the
Tenants’ T6 application is dismissed.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     With respect to the Tenants’
T1 application, the Landlord shall pay to the Tenants
the sum of $74.51. This amount represents interest on the last month's
rent deposit.
 
2.     With respect to the Tenant’s
T1 application, the Landlord shall pay to the Tenants
the sum of $175.00 which represents the return of the Tenants’ key
deposit.
 
3.    
The total amount the Landlord shall
pay to the Tenants is $248.51.
 
4.     If the Landlord
does not pay the Tenants
the full amount owing by February 16, 2022 the Landlord will owe interest. This will
be simple interest calculated from February 17, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
outstanding balance.
 
5.    
The Tenants have the right, at any time, to collect
the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
6.     The Tenant’s T2 and T6 applications are dismissed.
 
 
January 26, 2022 Date
Issued
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor
Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

