Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-26
File number:	
TST-19282-20

Citation:	Kara-Bibar v Al-Dulaimi, 2022 CanLII 86555 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/js1jj>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 



 


Order under
Section 57
Residential Tenancies Act,
2006


 




 


File Number: TST-19282-20




 
In the matter
  of:


 
2107, 1 VALHALLA INN ROAD TORONTO ON
  M9B1S9


 




Between:


Makram Kara-Bibar


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Amar Al-Dulaimi


Landlord



 
 
Makram Kara-Bibar (the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that Amar Al-Dulaimi (the 'Landlord'), gave a notice of termination in bad faith.
 
This application was heard via videoconference on January 11, 2022.
 
The Tenant, the Tenant’s
legal representative, Michael
Pilieci, and the Landlord attended
the hearing.
 
 
Determinations:
 
Preliminary Issue
 
1.     
At the hearing, the Landlord
requested an adjournment because he did not have legal representation. Although
he says he had a legal representative in the past, he could
not explain why he failed to retain a representative in a timely manner
for this matter. He received the Tenant’s application and evidence in September
of 2020.
 
2.      An individual’s right to representation is not absolute.
As the Landlord has had almost 16 months to obtain legal counsel, the
Landlord’s request for an adjournment is denied as unreasonable.
 
3.     
In order to alleviate any possible
prejudice to the Landlord arising from the denial of the adjournment, the
hearing was stood down for 30 minutes so the Landlord could gather, submit and serve any evidence he intended to rely on. The Tenant
did not object
and the Landlord used this
time to submit some documentary evidence.
 
The Tenant’s Application
 
4.     
This application is brought
pursuant to s. 57(1)(a) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the 'Act') which states:




 
57 (1) The Board may make an
order described in subsection (3) if, on application by a former tenant of a rental
unit, the Board
determines that,
 
(a)             
the landlord gave a notice of
termination under section 48 in bad faith, the former tenant vacated the rental unit as a result of the notice
or as a result of an
application to or order made by the Board based on the notice, and no person
referred to in clause 48 (1) (a), (b), (c) or (d) occupied the rental unit
within a reasonable time after the former tenant vacated the rental unit;
 
5.     
What this provision means
is that in order to succeed on this application the Tenant must lead sufficient evidence to
establish it is more likely than not that:
 
(a)    
The Tenant got a notice of termination under
s. 48;
 
(b)    
He moved out of the rental
unit as a result of the Landlord’s notice;
 
(c)     
The notice was given in bad faith meaning
the Landlord had no intention of moving into the
rental unit; and
 
(d)    
The Landlord did not in fact move into the rental
unit within a reasonable time after
the Tenant vacated.
 
6.     
There is no dispute between the
parties about the first, second and fourth elements of this test. The Tenant
was served a notice pursuant to section 48 of the Act on January 14, 2020, he moved out as a result
of the Landlord’s notice and the Landlord
did not move into
the rental unit. The central factual dispute is whether the Landlord genuinely
intended to move into the rental unit when he served the Tenant with the notice
of termination.
 
7.     
The Tenant moved out of the rental
unit on February 23, 2020. The Landlord listed the rental unit for lease in
March 2020 and it was re-rented sometime in July of 2020. The Tenant was paying $2,036.00 monthly before he moved out and the unit was re-rented for
$2,500.00.
 
8.     
The timing of the Landlord’s listing
and re-renting of the unit means the reverse onus provision in subsection 57(5) of the
Act applies. It says in part:
 
For the purposes of an application under clause (1) (a), it is presumed,
unless the contrary is proven on a balance of probabilities, that a
landlord gave a notice of termination under section 48 in bad faith, if at any
time during the period described in subsection (6) the landlord,
 
(a)    
advertises the rental unit for rent; [or]
 
(b)    
enters into a tenancy
agreement in respect
of the rental unit with someone other than the former tenant;
…
 
…




 
9.     
The period referred to in s. 57(5) runs for one year starting
the day the notice is served.
 
10. As the Landlord advertised the unit for rent and
entered into a tenancy agreement with another
tenant within the one year period, the Landlord bears the burden
of proving that it
is more likely than not that the notice of termination was served in good faith. The Tenant is relieved of the evidentiary burden of proving bad
faith.
 
11. We find that the Landlord
has not met his burden.
 
12. The Landlord says he failed to move into the rental
unit because “I was paying the mortgage; I couldn’t make enough; I barely made
enough to cover the mortgage and support my parents
and my mother is not working, my father is between
jobs. I support my parents
and I was in financial difficulty.”
 
13. The problem with this assertion
is that it is not supported by the Landlord’s testimony.
 
14. Within minutes of describing his alleged financial
difficulties, the Landlord
described doing
$4,000.00 worth of repairs and
renovations in the weeks after the Tenant moved out. When he was asked how he was able to conduct
these expensive repairs
even though he was allegedly experiencing financial
difficulty, the Landlord hesitated in his testimony and his answers became
halting and uncertain. Eventually he stated he had some “savings” set aside and
he did not pay all of the repairs up front.
 
15. While we have turned our mind to the Landlord’s
testimony regarding his loss of employment at one point, we are not persuaded that this temporary job loss was the
reason he served the notice of termination.
 
16. The Landlord provided
a letter of employment confirming he was laid off by his employer. It also confirms that he received a wage
subsidy immediately after being laid off and he admitted at the hearing that he
applied for and received Employment Insurance benefits after his layoff. The Landlord then admitted that he obtained another
job shortly afterwards and is
currently employed in a third job.
 
17. The Landlord’s ability
to find employment, coupled with his admission that he had several
thousands of dollars in savings suggests to us that the Landlord was not
experiencing severe financial difficulty when he served the notice of
termination on the Tenant.
 
18. In addition, there is evidence
before the Board supportive of the proposition the Landlord never
intended to move into the rental unit.
 
19. At the time the notice was served the Landlord was
living with his parents. He admits that he had no furniture or personal
belongings because he had recently moved from a different province. He acknowledges he was not ready to move in
because he would have to purchase furniture and housewares before
doing so, and he did not in fact do that at any
time up until the rental unit was re-rented.
 
20. The evidence also suggests the Landlord wanted
to evict the Tenant for other reasons.




 
21. For example, he had been trying to evict the Tenant for some time. On
March 27, 2019 he served an N12 for own use for his father which was not followed
up on. He says his father intended to move into the rental
unit, but it did not happen because
his parents moved into
a house instead.
 
22. After serving the first notice and prior to serving
the subsequent one, the Landlord attempted to convince the Tenant to pay an
illegal rent increase. The Tenant refused to pay the rent increase
suggested by the Landlord and instead insisted
the Landlord follow the guideline and serve proper
Notice of Rent Increase (‘NORI’) which the Landlord did. That NORI took effect
on July 21, 2019.
 
23. The Landlord also freely admits that he prefers to rent to people with no or few children because children “tend to break
things” and he believes the Tenant and his children caused undue damage to the
rental unit.
 
24. Finally, the Landlord describes
the Tenant’s maintenance requests
as bothersome. During his testimony, the Landlord
frequently described how the Tenant would “bother” him with maintenance requests; he says the Tenant likely “didn’t care about the rental unit”; and the Tenant forced him to “spend a lot of
money” on the rental unit during the duration of the tenancy.
 
25. The inconsistencies in the Landlord’s evidence as to
his financial situation, the acknowledgment that the Landlord did not have or obtain the
furnishings necessary to live on his own in the unit, coupled with the
suggestions that the Landlord was motivated to evict the Tenant for reasons
other than a genuine intention to move in, lead us to the conclusion that the
Landlord has not met his burden of proof. We are not satisfied it is more likely
than not that when the notice of termination
was served the Landlord genuinely intended to move into the
rental unit.
 
26. As a result, the presumption in s. 57(3) holds and we are satisfied the notice of termination
was served in bad faith.
 
The Remedies
 
27.
The remedies sought
in the application are: an
administrative fine; rent differential for one year; out of
pocket expenses for moving and
storage; general compensation for pain and suffering; and an amount
to compensate the Tenant for an increase
in utility costs and car insurance resulting from the move.
 
a)     Administrative Fine
 
28. The Tenant is requesting that the Landlord
be ordered to pay an administrative fine. Pursuant to the Board’s non-binding
Interpretation Guideline 16:
 
An administrative fine is a
remedy to be used by the Board to encourage compliance with the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the "RTA"), and to deter landlords from
engaging in similar activity in the future. This remedy is not normally
imposed unless a landlord has shown a blatant disregard
for the




 
RTA and other remedies will not
provide adequate deterrence and compliance. Administrative fines and rent
abatements serve different purposes. Unlike a fine, a rent abatement is intended to compensate a tenant
for a contravention of a tenant's rights or a breach of the landlord's obligations.
 
29. We do not find that this is an appropriate case for an
administrative fine as the remedies awarded below should
provide sufficient deterrence to the Landlord.
The Tenant’s request for an administrative fine is
denied.
 
b)     Rent Differential
 
30. With respect to rent differential the Tenant is now
paying $314.00 more per month than he was for the rental unit. The Tenant’s
current home (which has 3 bedrooms and 2 ½ bathrooms) is bigger than the rental
unit (which has 2 bedrooms and 1 bathroom). As the Tenant’s current
home is larger than the rental unit, any difference in rent must be
adjusted accordingly. As the Tenant has almost doubled the number of rooms in
his new home, we find that the requested abatement should be divided in half to
reflect the betterment the Tenant has gained. We find that it is reasonable to
grant the Tenant an abatement of
$1,884.00 and an order will issue accordingly.
 
d)  
Moving and Storage
 
31. The Tenant is also seeking out of
pocket expenses for moving and storage in the
amount of $200.00. We find
this amount to be reasonable and we see no reason not to award the
Tenant the costs of moving and storage. An order will issue for $200.00.
 
e)  Other Remedies
 
32. The Tenant is seeking reimbursement for increase
utility costs at his new home. In particular, the Tenant is seeking $600.00 for
increased heating costs, $480.00 for increased water costs and $1,800.00 for
increased car insurance costs. We are not satisfied that the Tenant’s
claim for increased
utility costs or car insurance
costs are warranted.
 
33. The Tenant was responsible for paying the costs of utilities at the rental
unit as these costs
were not included in the monthly rent. However, as the Tenant went from a 2
bedroom 1 bathroom unit to a 3 bedroom 2 ½ bathroom unit, this would naturally
result in higher utilities costs. For these reasons,
we find that there is insufficient evidence
to establish that the Tenant is paying increased
utility costs due to the Landlord’s behaviour.
 
34. Likewise, although the Tenant says he had to change
postal codes when he moved and his insurance rates were increased accordingly,
the Tenant led no evidence that he attempted
to find a better rate with a different insurance
carrier or mitigate
these increased costs in any
way. For these reasons, we do not find the Tenant’s claim for increase car
insurance costs to be warranted and this portion of the Tenant’s application is
dismissed.




 
a) General Damages
 
35. The application requests
$5,000.00 for compensation for general damages.
Evidence was led by the Tenant
that because he and his children were forced to move, his children experienced
ongoing and severe mental distress. Based on all of the evidence before us, we
have no doubt that the Tenant and his children suffered emotional distress and
inconvenience as a result of the Landlord’s actions. As a result, we are of the view that an order for general damages for pain and suffering is
appropriate.
 
36. The Tenant provided extensive detail regarding the
difficulties he and his children experienced.
The Tenant explained that his children, who were elementary school
age at the time, were forced to move away from
the only school they had ever attended
and the only home they had ever lived in. This meant that they left their friends
and their teachers and were forced to go to a new
school. The Tenant also explained that he had built a community of friends in
the building and in the neighbourhood and he and his children were forced to leave this support
system. The Tenant described in detail how his children would hold their class pictures
at night and cry as they went to sleep. This distressed behaviour continued for
weeks after the Tenant moved out of the rental unit.
 
37. The Tenant’s testimony on this point
was detailed and consistent and we have no reason to disbelieve him. We are persuaded
by the Tenant’s testimony that he and his children experienced significant emotional distress as a result
of the Landlord’s actions. Based
on the evidence before
us, and our knowledge of like similar
cases, we find that an award of
$2,000.00 is
sufficient to recognize the emotional stress
the Tenant and his family
suffered as a result of the Landlord’s bad faith termination of tenancy.
An order will issue accordingly.
 
38. The Tenant incurred
costs of $53.00 for filing
the application and is entitled
to an order for those costs.
 
39. This order contains
all of the reasons within
it and no further reasons
will be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.       
The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant $53.00
for the cost of filing
the application.
 
2.       
The Landlord shall also pay to the Tenant
$1,884.00. This amount
represents half of the
increased rent that the Tenant incurred for the period March 1, 2020 to
February 28, 2021.
 
3.       
The Landlord shall also pay to the Tenant
$200.00, for the reasonable out-of-pocket expenses that the Tenant has
incurred for the rental of a moving truck.
 
4.       
The Landlord shall also pay to the Tenant
$2,000.00 for general
damages in the nature of pin and suffering.
 
5.       
The total amount the Landlord owes the Tenant
is $4,137.00.




 
6.       
The Landlord shall pay the Tenant
the full amount owing by February 6, 2022.
 
7.       
If the Landlord does not pay the
Tenant the full amount owing by February 6, 2022, the Landlord will owe interest.
This will be simple interest
calculated from February
7, 2022, at 2.00% annually on
the outstanding balance.
 












January 26, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Daniel Berube

Member, Landlord and Tenant
Board
 
 
 
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor
Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

