Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-19
File number:	
TST-13342-20

Citation:	Narayanan v DMS Property Management and Park Property Management Inc, 2022 CanLII 74934 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrjjb>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 30
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TST-13342-20
 



In the matter
of:


119, 550 JARVIS
STREET TORONTO ON M4Y2H9


 




Between:


Nandini Narayanan
Narayanan Trichur Ramakrishnan


Tenants




 


and


 




 


DMS Property Management Park Property Management Inc


Landlords



 
Nandini Narayanan and Narayanan
Trichur Ramakrishnan (‘NN’ and ‘NTR’ or collectively, the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that DMS Property Management and Park Property
Management Inc (‘DMS’ and ‘ PPM’ or collectively, the 'Landlords') failed to
meet the Landlords' maintenance obligations under
the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') or failed
to comply with health,
safety, housing or maintenance standards. (T6 application)
 
The first hearing for this T6
application was held on February 16, 2021. That
hearing was adjourned essentially due to a change in ownership of the residential building in which the rental unit is situated. The previous owner, Bloorville Investments
Limited, sold the building to the Landlord, PPM, around the December 2019
timeframe. DMS is the property
manager of the building, working for PPM, and has been acting as the Landlord
for the tenants of the building.
The preliminary issues leading to
the adjournment at the first hearing related to the new representation for the
Landlords, and the Tenants’ interest to discuss a settlement with the new
Landlords, either between
themselves or as the Tenants
had requested, through
a second Case Management Hearing (CMH). As a first CMH had been held on April 14,
2020, a second CMH was not scheduled by the Board.
 
The merits of the T6 application were heard by videoconference on May 12, 2021 and October
12, 2021.
 
At the May 12,
2021 hearing, the Tenant, NN, and the Landlords’ Legal Representative, David
Ciobataru (‘LLR’), were in attendance. The October 12, 2021 hearing
was attended by NN, LLR and the Landlords’ Agent, Monica Turi
(‘LLA’). Imraan Lachoria (‘WIT’) also
appeared as a witness for the Landlords during the October 12th hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.     It was not disputed that the tenancy for the rental
unit between the parties began on October 1, 2019 and ended
on October 31, 2020 when the Tenants
vacated the unit. The monthly rent was $1,825.00. The rental unit is situated on the first
floor of the building.




 
2.     The T6 application was e-filed n January 25, 2020 and set out three maintenance claims, as follows: (a)
October 19, 2019 – toilet not draining properly; (b) since November 2019 – a
lack of heating in the unit; and (c) around January 2020 – repeated flooding of
the unit. If successful with their
application, the Tenants are requesting the following remedies: abatement of one month’s rent; a
reimbursement of $225.00 in out-of-pocket expenses; order the Landlords to
repair the heating and flooding (i.e. waterproof as needed inside and outside);
and order no rent increase until the repairs are completed.
 
(a) toilet not draining properly
 
3.    
The second day after the Tenants
took possession of the rental unit is when the issue with the toilet not draining properly
was discovered. NN testified that the Landlords
were alerted to the problem and they called a plumber to the rental unit
and attended to the repair in a reasonable timeframe.
 
(b) lack
of heating
 
4.    
NN testified she notified the
Landlords (a “Rosemarie”-office manager and a “Mr. Minh”- superintendent) about a heating
problem/deficiency on November
13, 2019 (exhibit
TT#1 – repair/mtce request). NN
confirmed the Landlords sent a technician on November 15, 2019; she confirmed
she was present when the repairman/tech bled the radiators and used a laser
device to measure room temperatures.
 
5.     On January 13, 2020, NN testified she complained again about the heating (exhibit
TT#2 – repair/mtce request) and the Landlords
had a technician attend the unit on
January 14, 2020. NN agreed with the Landlords’ disclosed
documents respecting the temperature readings taken then.
 
6.     NN identified two other maintenance requests (TT#3-Jan 31/2020
and TT#4-Feb 3/2020, written by “Rosemarie” but signed
by NN), which asked the Landlords to conduct temperature checks in the rental
unit.
 
7.     From the Landlords’ disclosure, NN affirmed the
Landlords’ technician visited the rental unit on December 21, 2019, January 13,
2020, January 14, 202 and January 31, 2020, when the radiators were checked to
ensure they were working and to take temperature readings in the living room,
bedroom, dining room (Jan 31st visit) and kitchen (Jan 31st visit). She
said the Landlords took the temperature reading which ranged from 16°C -- only on December 21, 2019 and January 21, 2020 – to a more acceptable range of 19° C
22.6° C in the different rooms.
NN testified the technician also inspected the windows in the rental unit for gaps, but found
none.
 
8.     NN testified that after the first complaint
made about the heating problem,
the Landlords did provide her
with a space heater (TT#5 – photo)
 
9.     NN stated that the heating
problem never really was repaired and by the time the Tenants
left for India (for NN’s father-in-law) in October 2020, NN testified the
heating problem was still there.




 
10.  NN was shown a copy of a Trimark Maintenance company’s
$3,976.02 quotation dated January 9, 2020 (exhibit LL#1) and she agreed that
Trimark had undertaken the radiator work as quoted,
which she said resulted in a much improved heating
situation for the unit.
 
11.  NN was also shown a copy of “Rosemarie’s” various
maintenance reports starting
from December 18, 2019 and going to February 4, 2020 (LL#2). She confirmed that LL#2 shows the Landlords attended the rental unit ten different times to inspect and work on the rad system and take temperature
readings each time. NN agreed the
Landlords never ignored the Tenants’ complaints about the heating; it was just
that it took the Landlords so long to actually make repairs.
 
12.  LLA is the Director for Multi-rise Residential and oversees 54 of the Landlords’ buildings. She testified that every year
when the heating boilers of the building in question are restarted for another
season of heating, it is not uncommon for air to be trapped in the pipes, which affects the efficiency of the heating
system. She stated the Landlords
often have to bleed the lines to clear the pipes for proper operation.
 
13.  LLA confirmed that she herself
did not manage
the rental unit heating complaints, but that her property
manager, Karen Jones, did. LLA only
spoke to the reports that Ms. Jones had given her during the radiator
technicians on-site calls. LLA stated
that many of the Landlords’ buildings have radiator heating systems, so she
ensures her property managers keep on top of every complaint received from
residents.
 
14.  LLA confirmed that from the initial November 13, 2019
complaint received from the Tenants, she is aware the Landlords had qualified
technicians attend the rental unit numerous times, to address and repair the
issue. She also confirmed the
Landlord provided the rental unit with a space heater to assist with any
deficiencies during the repair visits. Finally,
LLA stated that while she was not directly involved with this particular
heating problem, she did know the Trimark contractor was hired to repair the
rad system (replacement of a coil, etc.) so the heating fluctuations inside the unit would
be eliminated altogether.
 
(c) flooding
 
15.  NN described how heavy rain on October 31, 2019
created a flooding situation in the rental unit (exhibit TT#6 – photo of unit
floor). The water came from outside
through the baseboards, flooding the rental unit. The Tenants
had to quickly mop up as much as they could. NN contacted “Rosemarie” and she said a carpet company
came to the rental unit within a couple of hours to vacuum out the water
in the carpets, leaving big fans to dry out
the rental unit.
 
16.  Twice again, once on January 11, 2020 (exhibit TT#7 – Jan 11/20 emails) and then
on January 25, 2020, did the flooding problem reoccur. Again, the Landlords responded promptly by again having the
water in the unit vacuumed out and pumped out (with a sump pump).
Industrial fans were once again
left behind to run. NN stated the fans were connected to the Tenants’ electrical
outlets.




 
17.  NN testified the Landlord then undertook more
extensive repair work in February 2020 when contractors addressed the exterior membranes
of the building by digging
a trough around the building. She stated the Landlords’ waterproofing
repairs continued to late March 2020/early April 2020.
 
18.  NN testified that after the third flooding,
the Tenants were left with so much anxiety as they never knew when the next flooding
might occur.
 
19.  During cross-examination, NN did confirm that the
Tenants did not have any flooding issues between the first incident in October
2019 and the second incident in January 2020,
and as well, the Tenants
never had any further flooding
issues after the January
25, 2020 incident.
 
20.  LLA testified that whenever serious maintenance issues
occur, she ensures they are attended to quickly
for immediate repair,
but then LLA stated the Landlords undertake additional work to determine
the source of the problem if it is a serious issue.
 
21.  In this case, LLA stated the on-site superintendent
was immediately actioned to have remediation
work done on the rental
unit to clear it of the flooded
water, and to ensure the unit is properly secured and dried. This is what happened on October 31, 2019.
 
22.  On cross-examination, LLA confirmed that Karen Jones
elevated the issue to LLA’s attention as additional investigation and analysis
were needed to determine why the flood occurred in the first place.
 
23.  LLA stated the Landlords were already in the process
of working with a contractor to deal with a much
larger parking lot issue affecting the building. As the October 31, 2019 incident had been remediated and since
there were no further reports of flooding in November or December 2019, the
contractor was not contacted. LLA
stated the contractor’s investigation/analysis took place in February 2020 to
April 2020.
 
24.  LLA affirmed that if the October 31, 2019 leak/flood had led to a second
and third flooding in a short period of time, the
contractor would have been summoned promptly to take immediate action. As it was, LLA stated the contractor
continued its parking lot work unabated, until the end of January 2020, when
the rental unit reported two more instances of flooding. At that time, LLA testified she then escalated the matter to
WIT and the contractor for prompt
attention.
 
25.  LLA testified that on April 7, 2020, the contractor was finally approved
by the Landlords to
undertake a major repair of the leak-source on the building/property, which then took care
of any further chance of a leak/flood reoccurring in the rental unit.
 
26.  WIT is the Senior Project
Manager for DMS Solutions, and he has responsibility for all
larger capital expenditure projects.
 
27.  WIT testified that initially, he was involved
in the overhaul of the parking lot for the then
landlord and that project
represented a $1M undertaking. This project
was awarded in February 2019 and
took about one year to complete.




 
28.  WIT testified that the Landlords alerted him to the
water flooding issue in the rental unit, as well as a similar water flooding
issue in the next door apartment
(#119) in February or March 2020 (he
could not remember the exact date). WIT
testified they engaged the same contractor used for the parking lot, that is
ROMA Building Restoration, as it made the investigation/analysis work go much faster. He confirmed that in early April 2020, the
Landlords were able to approve ROMA to undertake the source of the water
flooding problem that was found.
 
29.  WIT explained that a water penetration issue was found
which affected some 55 lineal metres of elevation (where the garage roof slab meets the ground on the property). After removing at least one course of bricks, the contractor
undertook a proper waterproofing of the area.
The work took 3.5 weeks to fully complete.
 
30.  During cross-examination, WIT confirmed that he had
received no word from the Landlords about the October 31, 2019 incident
and was unable to speculate
whether he could have started
earlier had he known about the first incident.
 
Legislation and Analysis
 
31.  As the applicants, the Tenants have the onus to prove on
a balance of probabilities that the Landlord breached their
obligations under section 20 of the Act.
 
32.  I am also mindful of both parties’ duty to mitigate
found in section 16 of the Act. Specifically,
section 16 imposes
an obligation on each party to mitigate
or minimize their losses.
 
33.  The applicable provisions under section 20 of the Act
are as follows:
 
“20 (1) A landlord
is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in it,
in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with health,
safety, housing and maintenance standards.
 
20(2) Subsection (1) applies even if the tenant was aware of a state of non-repair or a contravention of
a standard before entering into the tenancy agreement.”
 
34.  A landlord’s maintenance obligations and the
irrelevance of fault has been referred to in court cases and was upheld by the
Divisional Court in 1994 in Offredi v. 751768 Ontario Ltd 1994 CanLII 11006 (ON SCDC), [1994] O.J. No.
1204 (“Offredi”). In that case
the Divisional Court stated: “The question of fault on the landlord’s part
is not the issue... What the tenants claim is a breach of contract. The tenants were paying full rent for premises which
the landlord was under an obligation… to keep in a
good state of repair and fit for habitation. The landlord failed to do that.
That is the basis for the claim for an abatement …”
 
35.  A landlord’s strict contractual liability for
maintenance breaches set out in Offredi has been balanced or offset
by another more recent case in 2016 in
Onyskiw v. CJM Property
Management Ltd., 2016 ONCA 477 (“Onyskiw”). In Onyskiw, the Court of Appeal for Ontario rejected the
position that a landlord is automatically in breach of its obligation to
maintain and repair under subsection 20(1) as soon as an interruption in
service occurs




 
or the unit is in need of repair.
The Court addressed the competing approaches taken to section 20 maintenance
applications and preferred the contextual approach. While a lease is properly
treated as a contract, breach of the terms/duty to maintain/repair will not
automatically result in a finding of liability. The Appeal Court found that the reasonableness of a landlord’s
response and conduct to the maintenance issue(s) is a factor in deciding breach
and/or remedy and that this is consistent with the Board’s Interpretation
Guideline No. 5.   This Appeal Court decision in Onyskiw is the guiding legal
authority here.
 
36.  Using the contextual approach for this case,
therefore, I find that on a balance of probabilities the Landlords did not breach their maintenance obligations under subsection 20(1) of the Act, neither in
respect of the toilet and heating claims nor the water/flooding problem.
 
37.  I am of the view that the Landlords reacted timely,
responsibly and reasonably to each problem as they were alerted to it. There was no dispute from the Landlords
that there were maintenance problems with the rental unit toilet, the heating
of the unit and the three separate incidents of flooding. However, the Landlords took prompt action
in response to the Tenants’ complaints each time the Tenants notified the
Landlords, or raised a problem
to the Landlords’ attention. And I note that it is evident
that the Tenants cooperated with the Landlords
each time the Landlords attended to the maintenance problems.
 
38.  The problem with the toilet was resolved readily, it
appears, as both parties testified as much, and certainly
they did not spend much time or effort during the hearings
to present on this problem.
 
39.  The problem with the rental unit radiators/heating system was a more involved
one, and it was evident from the parties’
submissions that the Landlords had their repair personnel attend the rental
unit more than ten times from the initial the November 13, 2019 complaint by
the Tenants.
 
40.  The Landlords loaned a space heater to the Tenants,
bled the radiators, inspected the unit’s windows for possible heat loss issues,
and had personnel regularly check/adjust the
radiator operation inside the rental unit, all the while taking temperature readings as part of
their monitoring.
 
41.  The Landlords continual
efforts to address/repair the heating problem did take a period
of approximately two months to fully repair, but the Tenants did have
heat throughout this period of time. It
is not lost on me that from the Landlords own submissions, the temperature in certain rooms of the rental unit did fall on a few certain
days below the 20°
C threshold (per Ontario Regulation 517/06, section 15), but the
Landlords did keep on top of the matter, which led to the Landlords’ contractor
undertaking the more final, corrective repairs in mid-January 2020.
 
42.  With regard to the most serious problem,
that is the flooding of the unit,
it is evident to me the work that was required to fully
resolve the water/flooding problem was in the end, not a simple matter of
having someone attend the rental unit for a quick “fix”. As was duly




 
evidenced, the work required
major repair of some 55 lineal feet of elevated
concrete on the building’s
outside property.
 
43.  There was no real dispute that the first flood/leak of
October 31, 2021 was attended to and repaired
very promptly by the Landlords. It was also, in my view, quite
reasonable for the Landlords to have assumed the problem had been
completely resolved as no other complaints of flooding were made in
November 2019 and December 2019. Only
when the second water leak/flooding occurred on January 11, 2020, did the
Landlords start to suspect the problem was much more serious.
 
44.  From there, in my view, the Landlords took reasonable
and responsible steps to remediate both the January 11, 2020 and January 25,
2020 incidents promptly, and then
they retained a contractor to undertake an analysis and full repair of the
source of the problem, which was clearly coming
from outside on the building
property and it really had nothing to do with the rental unit
itself.
 
45.  Finally, a landlord
is also required to rectify
any maintenance deficiencies that are shown to exist
and need to be brought up to applicable standards. If a deficiency is found, typically any breach of maintenance
obligations will generally result in an order under section 30 of the Act.
 
46.  In this tenancy, there was nothing led to show that
there were maintenance deficiencies of any kind. Neither party testified or led any evidence of any order having
been issued for any kind of building, structural, habitation, safety or health
violation by any relevant authority, either at the city or provincial level (e.g.s. municipal
property standards by-laws, or similar provincial standards). In that regard, too, the Landlords have
not breached their maintenance
obligations under the Act.
 
47.  In summary, none of the claims is successful under the T6 application and as such, it
must be dismissed.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Tenants’ T6 application is dismissed.
 
 
 
 
January 19, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      Alex Brkic
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor
Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

