Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-19
File number:	
TST-15598-20

Citation:	Colucci v 10887609 Canada Inc., 2022 CanLII 75217 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrjjf>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TST-15598-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


202B, 51 WINCHESTER STREET TORONTO ON M4X1A8


 




Between:


Emma Colucci Adam
Henderson


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


10887609 Canada Inc.


Landlord



 
 
Emma Colucci and Adam Henderson
(the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that 10887609 Canada Inc. (the 'Landlord') substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a member
of their household.
 
This application was heard in by video conference
on November 9, 2021. The Tenants and the
Landlord attended the hearing. The
Landlord was represented by David Ciobutaro.
 
Tom Mintsopoulos provided evidence for the Landlord
and Ms Colucci provided evidence
for the Tenants.
 
The parties agree that the Landlord
is 10887609 Canada
Inc. (‘1088 Canada’)
and the application should be amended to remove
the reference to Lesley Black. I
understand that Ms Black is the principal of 1088 Canada.
 
 
Determinations:
 
1.     This application was filed on May
6, 2020. The Tenants are seeking a rent abatement
of 25% per month based on the adverse impact on them of work that the
Landlord performed on the exterior of the residential complex.
 
2.    
The work done by the Landlord
involved, inter alia: (a) repairing the brick façade; (b) replacing
windows; (c) restoring balconies; and (d) replacing the slate roof. This work
required the erecting of scaffolding and shrouding the residential complex in
opaque tarping. The Tenants assert
that: (a) the shrouding of the residential complex had the effect of depriving them of natural
light; and (b) the
brickwork resulted in excessive dust and poor air quality in the rental unit.
 
3.    
The parties
agree that the work
on the residential complex began
in August of 2019 and was not completed until the end of
August or the beginning of September
of 2020. The




 
shrouding was, however, removed
from the building in June of 2020. The
Tenants are seeking a 25% abatement of rent for the period from November 2019 through to June
of 2020.
 
4.    
The Tenants
no longer live in the rental unit. They vacated
after the work on the residential complex was completed, on
December 1, 2020.
 
 
Other Related Applications
 
5.     The Tenants indicated on the T2 that other tenants in the residential complex had filed
T2 applications based on the work undertaken by the Landlord. At the beginning of the hearing, Ms
Colucci indicated that she was aware of at least two other applications.
 
6.     When I inquired as to the result(s) of the other applications, Mr. Ciobutaro initially advised me that both had been dismissed, but then
clarified that only one application—TST- 15034-20—had been dismissed and the other—TST-11924-19 had not yet been heard by
the Board. Ms Colucci indicated that,
to her knowledge, TST-15034-20 had been settled on November 8, 2021.
 
7.     While it played no part in my determination of this
application, I looked up both TST- 15034-20 and TST-11924-19 on CMORE.
TST-15034-20 was, as indicated by Ms Colucci,
settled as between
the parties and was dismissed on the basis
of that settlement as opposed to being dismissed
on its merits. TST-11924-19 was most
heard by the Board on December 7, 2021.
 
Witnesses
 
8.     Ms Black elected to not attend the hearing to provide
evidence. Mr. Mintsopoulos indicated that she was unable to attend to provide first-hand evidence because she was out of the country and in a different
time zone. That, in my view, is not a
reasonable excuse in circumstances where a hearing is proceeding remotely via
Zoom.
 
9.     No officer or director of 10887609 Canada
Inc. (‘10887 Canada’)
attended the hearing.
 
10.  Mr. Mintsopoulos is not an officer or director of
10887 Canada. He was the general
contractor hired by the Landlord for the purposes of the work undertaken to the exterior
of the residential complex and otherwise represented the Landlord in
connection with the residential complex.
 
11.  While Mr. Mintsopoulos claimed to have first-hand
knowledge of the relevant facts, I found his evidence to be unclear at times.
He could not remember specific dates when, for example, key professionals were
retained, or when the work on the exterior of the residential complex began or
was completed, and did not know the
final cost of the work undertaken. Mr. Mintsopoulos seemed to me to be intent on providing me with
specific facts that he believed supported the Landlord’s position on the
application regardless of the question that was put to him. I also note, for example, that Mr. Mintsopoulos testified




 
in response to a direct question
from Mr. Ciobutaro that, after reading all of the communications, he was not aware
of any requests by the Tenants that they be relocated or in any other way accommodated. There was, however,
evidence before me of multiple
e-mail requests by Ms Colucci to Ms Black requesting a (voluntary) rent
abatement.
 
12. 
Ms Colucci
was very well-prepared for the hearing
and presented her evidence in a clear and straightforward manner.
 
13. 
To the extent of any inconsistency between the evidence
of Mr. Mintsopoulos and that of
Ms Colucci, I prefer the evidence of Ms Colucci.
 
Applicable Legislative Provisions
 
14.  This application
is brought pursuant to sections
29 and 30 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') involves the interplay
between sections 20 and 22 of the Act. The relevant provisions of the Act
provide, in part:
 
20 (1) A landlord is responsible for providing and maintaining a residential complex, including the rental units in
it, in a good state of repair and fit for habitation and for complying with
health, safety, housing and maintenance standards.
…
 
22 A landlord
shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental
unit and before the day on
which an order evicting the tenant is executed substantially interfere with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or the residential complex
in which it is located
for all usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.
…
 
29 (1)
A tenant or former tenant
of a rental unit may apply to the Board for any of the following orders:
 
3. An order determining that the landlord, superintendent or agent of the landlord has substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex for all usual
purposes by the tenant or a member of his or her household.
…
 
(2)
No application may be made under subsection (1) more than one year after the day
the alleged conduct giving rise to the application occurred.
 
30 (1) If the Board determines in an application under paragraph 1 of subsection
29
(1)   that
a landlord has breached an obligation under subsection 20 (1) or section
161, the Board may do one or
more of the following:
 
…
2. Order an
abatement of rent.
…




 
15.  The Tenants agree that the work undertaken was
required in order for the Landlord to comply with its obligations under
subsection 20(1) of the Act. Section 8 of the General Regulations to the
Act provides guidance with respect to
how the Board is to approach
applications made by a tenant
pursuant to section 22 where the landlord
is undertaking repairs or
maintenance in accordance with its obligations under subsection 20(1). Section
8 of the General Regulations is reproduced in Schedule A to this Order.
 
Facts
 
16.  The residential complex is a historic building. According to Mr. Mintsopoulos, the issues
with the building that resulted in the work that is in issue in this
application having to be done came to the knowledge of the Landlord sometime in
late-December of 2018. The Landlord
produced a letter dated July 23, 2019 from GBCA Architects detailing the work
that was required to be done to the residential complex. There is reference in that letter to an earlier e-mail and a letter dated 22 June 2019. The Landlord also produced a letter
dated April 15, 2019, from Hunt Heritage
Ltd. That outlines the issues with the residential complex and the work required
to address those issues.
 
17.  The Landlord provided the tenants of the residential complex
with notice of the work to be
undertaken on August 12, 2019. There
is no dispute that this notice was provided to tenants after the Landlord had
commenced work on the exterior of the residential complex. This notice indicated that the work was
expected to be completed within three months—by November of 2019—but provided
tenants with no information on the anticipated impact of the work other than to
indicate that scaffolding would be installed.
 
18.  Mr. Mintsopoulos evidence
was that the reason that tenants
were not advised of the work to be
undertaken on the exterior of the residential complex until August of 2019 was
that the electrical work necessary for the work to begin was not done until August of 2019. I do not accept that explanation.
 
19.  The Landlord were aware in December of 2018 that the
work would be required to be undertaken and that the Landlord were aware of the
electrical issues in the Spring of 2019. There
was no reason why the Landlord had to wait until the electrical work was
completed by Toronto Hydro to advise tenants as to what was going to be
happening. Moreover, there was a job quote and an invoice from Toronto Hydro
introduced by the Landlord that appeared at least to indicate that the
electrical work was completed earlier than indicated by Mr. Mintsopoulos. When I put this to him, Mr. Mintsopoulos was unable
to provide a clear explanation for the apparent inconsistency between his
evidence and the invoice. I also note
that in his cross-examination of Ms Colucci, Mr. Ciobutaro seemed to indicate
that the issues with the electrical connection to the residential complex
occurred after the work had commenced. He
had Ms Colucci confirm that she was aware that an
issue relating to the electrical connection to the building
resulted in the work having to stop until Toronto
Hydro addressed that issue thereby resulting in the work being delayed.
 
20.  The work was not completed
within the anticipated timeline and, on or about November
20, 2019, the Landlord
provided tenants with a notice
indicating that the work would
not be completed until the end of March of 2020. That notice provided no indication as to




 
why an additional four months to complete the work and did not provide tenants
with any information with
respect to the anticipated impact of the ongoing work.
 
21.  There is no evidence before me that any further
notice(s) were provided by the Landlord to tenants after the notice dated
November 20, 2020, but Ms Colucci indicated that there might have been another
notice sent by e-mail. While Mr.
Mintsopolous indicated that he
thought a notice was sent to
tenants in May of 2020, but the Landlord did not provide any evidence of any further notice(s). I find that there was no further notice
and Ms Colucci was more than likely referring to the e-mails
she received from Ms Black advising her that the work would be completed by
the end of April 2020 and then by the end of June 2020.
 
22.  Beginning in November of 2020, the shrouding installed
by the Landlord blocked the natural light to the
rental unit to a significant degree. Pictures introduced by the Tenants depicted what I would describe
as a very significant lack of natural
light in the rental unit that resulted from the shrouding.
 
23.  In December of 2019, in response to complaints from the Tenants,
the Landlord arranged for a
hole to be cut in the shrouding in one location to allow some natural light
into the rental unit, but that hole was covered
by semi-transparent plastic.
Based on the Tenants’
pictures, this did not materially change the situation with respect to there
being natural light in the rental unit.
 
24.  In mid-January of 2020, the Tenant contacted
the Landlord about the air quality
and dust issues in the rental
unit resulting from the nature of the work being undertaken on the exterior and
the lack of airflow resulting from the shrouding. Ms Colucci advised the Landlord
that she has asthma and that
that the poor air quality and dust in the rental unit were having an adverse effect on her as a result.
 
25.  In response to the Tenants’ concerns with respect to
the air quality in the rental unit, in mid-January of 2020, the Landlord indicated that they were
going to test the air quality
in the rental unit and arranged for the Tenants to be provided with an
air quality testing device to test the air quality in the unit. The Tenants
produced screenshots of the results generated by the device, which
indicated that the air quality in the
rental unit was at unhealthy levels while the work on the exterior of the
residential complex was being carried out.
 
26.   The Landlord (unreasonably in my view)1
objected to the results from the air quality testing device being admitted as
evidence. Those objections were
grounded on the reliability of the device
and the fact that there was no witness put forward
by the Tenants to attest to the accuracy of the device.
 
27. 
I considered the results from the air quality testing
device notwithstanding the Landlord’s objections. The Landlord provided the air quality
testing device to the Tenants for the
 


1 Mr. Ciobutaro indicated that his instructions were to
require that the Tenants strictly prove every aspect of their case. While I appreciate that Mr. Ciobutaro was
following his instructions, but this resulted in the hearing taking longer than it
should have in terms of the Tenants
presenting their case. Ms Colucci,
for her part, was reasonable and agreed to admit all of the
Landlord’ evidence as a package.














 

specific purpose of assessing the
air quality in the rental unit. In my
view, having done that, the Landlord
cannot object to the results of the
testing done by the very device they
provided to the Tenants. I note that Mr. Mintspoulos volunteered that the Landlord were ‘shooting themselves in the foot’ by providing the Tenants
with an air quality testing device.
 
28.  The Landlord speculated that the poor air quality
in the rental unit might be reflective of the general air quality outside of the residential complex. There was, however, no evidence put forward by the Landlord to support this
assertion and I find, based on the results from the air quality testing device,
that it is more likely than not that the poor air quality in the rental unit
was the result of the work being undertaken and the lack of proper air
circulation that resulted from the shrouding.
 
29.  The Landlord indicated to the Tenants that the replacement of the windows
of the rental unit would address the air quality issues. It did not and, as set out below, issues
encountered with the replacement of the windows exacerbated the situation
 
30.  In March of 2020, the Landlord agreed to provide the
Tenants with an air purifier to address the air quality issues
in the rental unit. The Tenants’ evidence
was, however, that the
Landlord did not provide the promised air purifier until May or June of 2020.
 
31.  While Mr. Mintsopoulos’s evidence was that the
Landlord was unable to find an air purifier ‘on the shelf’ in March of 2020 and had to order one, he was unable to explain
the apparent discrepancy between his evidence and an e-mail from Ms Black to Ms
Colucci in or about March of 2020 in which Ms Black indicated that she had
purchased an air purifier.
 
32.  The Tenants produced pictures of dust and debris
inside and outside of the rental unit. The Tenants asserted that this dust was
the result of the work being conducted by the Landlord and was exacerbated by
issues encountered in replacing the windows of the rental unit in February
of 2020. The Tenants produced
pictures depicting gaps around a newly-installed window arising
as a result of the window ordered by the Landlord not fitting the opening.
 
33.  Aside from raising the fact that the Tenants had not
introduced expert evidence on the installation of windows, the Landlord did
seriously not challenge this evidence. Mr.
Mintsopoulos’s evidence on the windows was limited to explaining the delay in
ordering the windows and getting replacements for windows that were the wrong size. I find that it is more likely than not that the dust
and debris in the rental unit was caused by the work undertaken by the
Landlord. The pictures of the gaps
around the newly-installed window(s), and the dust
and debris on the window
ledge(s) are sufficient evidence
for me to reach that
conclusion.
 
34.  In response to a question from Mr. Ciobutaro as to what the Tenants did to
mitigate the dust, Ms Colucci
testified that she engaged with the Landlord and the company hired by the Landlord to do the work to try to
address the dust and air quality in the rental unit.




 
35.  The work on the exterior
of the residential complex was ultimately not completed until
the end of August of 2020—twelve months after it began. The Tenants’ evidence was, however, that
the shrouding was removed in mid-June of 2020.
 
36.  Mr. Ciobutaro cross-examined Ms Colucci with respect
to her knowledge as to whether consent was needed for the Landlord to undertake
the work to the exterior of the residential complex due to its historic status.
I think that he wanted me to draw the conclusion that some delay in obtaining that consent was somehow responsible
for either the fact that the initial
notice to the tenants was not given until August of 2019 or how long
it took to complete the work. There
was, however, no evidence from the Landlord with respect to what, if any, delay was caused by the
inability of the Landlord to obtain the
required approvals in a timely manner.
 
37.  The Landlord suggested that the delay in completing the work
may have been caused by ‘challenges’ encountered by the Landlord
after the work commenced, but there was no evidence from the Landlord as to any such
‘challenges’. While Mr. Mintsopoulos testified
that the Landlord encountered unanticipated issues
in conducting the work, there
was no evidence from the Landlord with respect to these issues, when
they were discovered or how any unanticipated issues might have delayed the
work.
 
38.  Mr. Mintsopoulos asserted that the work was done only
Monday to Friday and this resulted in delays.
However, I note that the fact that the work was to be carried
out on weekdays was known when
the initial notice was provided in August of 2010.
 
39.  The Tenants did
not report the issues identified on the application to the City of Toronto. Under cross-examination, Ms. Colucci indicated
that she did not report the issue to the City
because she did not want to do anything that would prolong
the time it was taking
to complete the work. I accept
this explanation. Moreover, it is
not, in my view, critical to the Tenants’ application that they have complained
to the City about the issues caused by the work undertaken by the Landlord. There is ample uncontested evidence that
the issues were repeatedly raised with the Landlord.
 
40.  The Landlord raised the fact that a significant amount
was spent on the project. The amount that the Landlord spent on the work that was undertaken is, however, not, in my view, relevant.
 
Analysis
 
41.  The Tenants conceded that the work undertaken by the
Landlord was required for the Landlord to comply
with their obligations under subsection 20(1) of the Act. As a result, section 8 of the General Regulations requires
that I engage in what amounts to a multi- stage analysis in determining
whether to grant the Tenants’ application. Section
8 balances the interest of landlords and tenants by recognizing that a
landlord fulfilling its obligations under subsection 20(1) of the Act may result
in a degree of interference in a tenant’s
reasonable enjoyment of a rental unit or the residential complex.
 
42. 
I must first determine, based on the requirements of subsection 8(3),
whether the work undertaken by the Landlord constitutes a substantial
interference with the Tenants’




 
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. I must then determine, based on subsection 8(4) whether a rent abatement is available to the Tenants. Finally,
I must determine, based on the limitations imposed by subsections 8(5)
through (8) of the General Regulations, the amount of the abatement, if any,
that is reasonable.
 
43.  In determining
whether, in carrying out the work on the exterior of the residential complex, the Landlord substantially
interfered with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit for the purposes of section 20 of the Act, I am
required by subsection 8(3) of the General Regulations to consider the effect
of the carrying out of the work on the use of the rental unit or residential
complex by the Tenants. I am not
permitted by that subsection to find
that any interference was ‘substantial’ unless
I find that the carrying out of the work constituted an interference
with the Tenants’ use and enjoyment of the rental unit that was unreasonable in
the circumstances.
 
44.  Considering the evidence before me and the effect that
the work had on the Tenants, I am satisfied that the carrying out of the work
by the Landlord constituted an interference that was unreasonable in the
circumstances. The failure of the
Landlord to take steps to address the lack of direct
sunlight and the poor
air quality that resulted from the work over
the period of time the work was being done resulted, in my view, in an
interference with the Tenants’ use and enjoyment of the rental unit that was
unreasonable. As described further
below, I also find that the time it took to complete the work was, in my view,
unreasonable in the circumstances
 
45.  Having found that the interference caused by the work
undertaken to the exterior of the residential complex constitutes substantial
interference, subsection 8(4) nevertheless prohibits me from granting
an abatement to the Tenants
if the Landlord has satisfied all of the conditions set out in that subsection. In this case, I find that I am able to
grant an abatement because the Landlord
has not satisfied all of the conditions in subsection 8(4).
 
46.  There is no dispute that the Landlord did not give
tenants notice 60 days before the commencement
of the work. The Landlord first provided tenants with notice in August of 2019, after the work had already
commenced. I am not satisfied that
there was an ‘emergency’ that would
have justified providing tenants
with less than the 60-days
notice contemplated by paragraph 8(4)1. The Landlord was aware that the work to
the exterior of the residential complex would be required in late-December of
2018 and had written confirmation of the details of that work in at least April
of 2019. Even if the electrical issue
prevented the Landlord from commencing the work, I do not accept the Landlord’s
position that it was required to provide notice to the tenants only once it knew
that the work could commence. In my
view, paragraph 8(4)1 cannot be interpreted in that way.
 
47.  I further find that:
(a) the notice that was provided
by the Landlord in August of 2019 did not sufficiently describe the expected
impact that would result from the work to be undertaken as required
by paragraph 8(4)3; and (b) the Landlord
did not provide tenants with
notice as required by paragraph 8(4)5 when they determined that the work to the
exterior of the residential complex would not be completed by March of 2020 as
per the notice delivered in November of 2019.




 
48.  Having found that the Landlord cannot satisfy other
conditions, I am also required to consider whether the Landlord was required to
obtain or, if they were required to do so, obtained a permit to undertake the
work on the exterior of the residential complex. [See General Regulations, s. 8(4)7] I will note, however,
that the Landlord’s evidence on this matter was confusing. The Landlord produced only a building
permit dated August 20, 2020 that
was for a separate work to a non-residential portion of the residential complex. When I asked about this and
whether there was another (earlier) building permit, Mr. Mintsopoulos testified
that there was not and that no permit was required for the work because the Landlord had permission from the local ‘heritage society’.
Mr. Mintsopoulos ultimately
testified, however, that he did not
know whether another permit was obtained.
 
49.  I am also not required
to consider whether the duration of the work was reasonable in the circumstances. [See
General Regulations s. 8(4)9] The duration of the work is, however,
relevant for the purposes of subsection 8(5) and I find that the duration of
the work was not reasonable in the circumstances.
 
50.  The Tenants argued that the Landlord elected to
undertake the process known as ‘tuckpointing’
as opposed to ‘repointing’—both are processes to remove and replace the mortar between the bricks—and that this decision
resulted in the work taking longer. To support this argument the Tenants
relied on a newspaper article. I do
not accept the Tenants’ argument. However,
it is relevant that the Landlord’s evidence was that ‘tuckpointing’ was the
process that they elected to use when they decided to do the brickwork and advised tenants
that the work would be completed by November of
2019.
 
51.  The Landlord did not provide any plausible—indeed
any—explanation2 as to how a project that was initially estimated to take three months
and then seven
months ultimately took 12
months to complete. The majority of
Mr. Mintsopoulos’s evidence related to the work undertaken, why it was
undertaken and how much was spent by the Landlord. There was no clear explanation
from Mr. Mintsopoulos as to why the work took so long to complete the work. The only evidence of an issue from the
Landlord related to the electrical connection to the residential complex, but
that was resolved either before the work was commenced or shortly thereafter
and does not explain the delay in completing the work.
 
52.  The Landlord attempted to assign a degree of
responsibility for the delay in completing the work on COVID. There was
no evidence from the Landlord as to
what, if any, effect COVID actually
had on the ability of the Landlord to complete the work in a timely manner. I note that the work commenced and was,
initially at least, expected to be completed prior to COVID being a factor in
mid-2020. In these circumstances,
COVID cannot be relied upon, in my view, as an ex post facto excuse to
justify the time that it took to complete
the work. While I am prepared to accept that COVID resulted
in supply chain and other
issues in 2020 and 2021, I am not prepared to accept that COVID caused this
particular project to be delayed in the absence of evidence to that effect.
 
 


2 Without providing any evidence to support
the assertion, Mr. Mintsopoulos
appeared, for example, blamed the inability to secure a window for the rental unit on COVID,
but the issue with the window
appears, based on the evidence, to pre-date COVID presenting serious supply-chain
issues.




 
53.  The Landlord raised the fact that the Tenants did not
produce any experts to provide evidence with respect to whether the length of
time that it took for the work to be completed
was unreasonable. I do not believe that is fatal
to the Tenants’ case and note that the Landlord also provided me
with no expert evidence and relied only on Mr. Mintsopoulos’s opinion evidence
that the work could not have been done faster.
In the absence of a plausible—indeed any—explanation from the Landlord
as to what actually caused the delay,
I am left with no other alternative
but to conclude that a 9-month delay in completing work that it
was originally estimated would take three months is unreasonable. [See TET-64613-15 (Re), 2016
CanLII 52836 (ON LTB) where, in circumstances
similar to this case,
there was evidence put forward
by the landlord to explain the delay.]
I note that the Landlord had the benefit of the advice of multiple
professional advisors when they estimated that the work would take three months
to complete.
 
54.  Having found that the Tenants are entitled to an
abatement, I must determine whether to grant
an abatement and the
amount of that abatement. In the circumstances of this case, that exercise involves not only the
application of the test developed under section 22 of the Act, but also the
application of subsections 8(5)-(8) of the General Regulations.
 
55. 
Subsection 8(5) of the General Regulations requires that I consider various
factors in determining whether
to grant an abatement and the amount of the abatement:
 
1.   
I have considered the nature,
duration and degree of the interference with the reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit that was caused by the work carried
out by the Landlord. In particular, I have considered that the
loss of direct sunlight and the poor air quality in the rental unit
constituted, in my view, a significant interference with the Tenants’
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit and this interference lasted for about
11 months.3
 
2.    There is no dispute
that Tenants were not in any way responsible for any delay in the carrying out of the work to the
exterior of the residential complex.
 
3.   
I
do not accept Mr. Mintsopoulos’s bare (and self-serving) assertion that there was
nothing more the Landlord could have done to address the dust and air quality
in the rental unit. The only efforts
made by the Landlord to minimize interference with the reasonable enjoyment of
the rental unit resulting from the work undertaken Landlord were to: (a) have a
hole cut in the tarp covering one window of the rental
unit; and (b) provide
the Tenants with an
air cleaner in May or June of
2020.4 Neither of these
efforts was, in my view, effective to minimize the interference with the
Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit caused by the work undertaken
by the Landlord. Even when a hole was cut in the
shrouding it was covered by opaque plastic. The
Landlord took no meaningful steps to address the air quality and dust issues in
the rental unit by, for example: (a) providing venting through the shrouding or
improving air circulation behind the
 












3 The Tenants are not seeking
a rent abatement for the first three
months.
4 I do not consider
providing the Tenants
with an air quality
testing device to be an effort to minimize the interference
resulting from the work on the exterior of the residential complex.




 
shrouding; or (b) promptly
and effectively addressing the gaps around
the newly- installed windows.
 
4.   
The Tenants took advantage of air
cleaner provided by the Landlord and made use
of the air quality testing
device provided by the Landlord.
The air purifier was not
provided until May or June of 2020 and the air quality testing device was not
intended to per se address the air quality issue.
 
5.   
Given the nature of the
work being undertaken, I find that the
Landlord could have reasonably expected that the failure to carry out
the work on the exterior of the residential
complex within a reasonable period of time, would result in
interference with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex for all usual
purposes by the Tenants. The Landlord
had to know that the shrouding of the residential complex would result in the
loss of direct sunlight to rental units and it was reasonable for the Landlord
to expect that the nature of the work being undertaken to the exterior of the
residential complex would result in dust and air quality issues.
 
56.  Ultimately, I am satisfied that there has been a
breach of section 22 of the Act by the Landlord—there has been substantial interference with the reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit by the
Tenants—such that a rent abatement ought to be granted notwithstanding that the
interference results from work undertaken by the Landlord in compliance with
their obligations under section 20 of the Act.
 
57.  The final matter I must decide on this application is
the abatement to which the Tenants are entitled. That involves the application of the case law
and subsection 8(5) through (8) of the General Regulations.
 
58.  As noted by Vice Chair Savoie in TST-56138-14 (Re) [2015
CanLII 3162 (ON LTB)], ‘[a]batement of rent
is a contractual remedy based on the principle that if you are paying 100% of the rent then you
should be getting 100% of what you are paying for and if you are not getting that, then a tenant should be entitled to abatement
equal to the difference
in value.’
 
59. 
In Biltmore Terrace Apartments v. Nazareth
[[1997] O.J. No 1881 (Gen Div)], a decision
rendered under the Landlord and Tenant Act, the Court remarked:
 
It is always difficult
to arrive at a proper
amount or percentage by way of
abatement. There is no magic formula.
What is appropriate in each case will depend
on the circumstances, including the amount of rent, the age and general
condition of the premises, the nature and degree of the non repair, and its
duration, the efforts of the Landlord to inspect, the co-operation or otherwise
of the Tenant in that regard, and the efforts made by the Landlord to rectify
the defect.
 
60.  Similarly, in Offredi v. 751768 Ontario Ltd. [1994 CanLII 11006 (ON SCDC), 116
DLR (4th) 757 (Gen Div)], the Court considered complaints made by a group of tenants concerning a lengthy power outage,
lack of parking due to garage repairs,
poor maintenance of common arrears
and lack of adequate security, which extended over
a two-year period. The Court found:




 
 
 
It
is well recognized in the authorities that there is no neat formula for
determining an appropriate amount by way of abatement. In other words slide rule precision is not possible. …The ultimate objective is to set an amount that is fair
in all the circumstances.
 
61.  The
decision in Offredi
was appealed and the Divisional Court upheld the trial judge and found:
 
As
to the amount of the reduction, the learned judge recognized that there was no
mathematical way in which an appropriate amount could be determined. He
obviously wrestled with the problem and arrived at the conclusion that 20% was a fair figure in this
case to compensate the tenants for the deplorable conditions to which they have
been subjected. We can see no justification for our changing
that decision, made by the judge
who heard the evidence as to those conditions. [1994 CanLII 11006 (ON SCDC)]
 
62.  In connection with the determination of the amount of the abatement that is appropriate. subsections 8(6) through (8)
of the General Regulations impose limits on
the amount of the abatement that I am permitted to grant. These provisions are not, however,
relevant because the Tenants are seeking an abatement of only 25%.
 
63. 
In this case, it is my view that the
monthly rent abatement of 25% requested by the Tenants is appropriate.
 
64.  I find that shrouding the building and the resulting
lack of natural light, and the dust and poor air quality that resulted from the
work to the exterior of the residential complex resulted in disruption to the
Tenants’ ability to use the rental unit and affected the Tenants’ normal use
and enjoyment of the rental unit. Disruption
to a tenant’s ability to use a rental unit and a negative impact on the normal
use and enjoyment of the rental unit has been determined by the Board in other
cases to warrant a rent abatement of up to 25%. In this case, I find that the nature, extent and length
of the interference justify an
abatement at the upper end of the scale.
 
65.  In determining that a 25% abatement is appropriate, II have considered only the impact that the loss of direct sunlight
caused by the shrouding would have on the average tenant. I note that Ms. Colucci notified the
Landlord that she had asthma and that the differential impact that the poor
air quality in the rental
unit had on her
as a result of her condition, but that consideration did
not change my assessment of the amount of the abatement that I am prepared to
award in this case. I would have
awarded a 25% abatement without regard
to the specific the impact that the poor air quality had on Ms Colucci.5
 
 












5 If section
8 of the General Regulations was not
applicable, and the Tenants had
requested it, I might have awarded an abatement in excess
of 25% based on Ms Colucci’s condition, but I am unable to find that the
conditions of subsection8(7) are satisfied. In
particular, I am unable to find, based on the evidence presented, that the interference far exceeded the level that would normally be expected.
Ms Colucci was, as noted,
well prepared for the
hearing and, while she is not, to my knowledge, a lawyer or licensed paralegal,
I believe she was aware of the restriction imposed on me by subsections (5) through (8) and did not attempt to argue for a rent
abatement of greater than 25%.




 
66.  Subsection 8(6) provides that I may grant a rent
abatement for each month or part of a month during which I find there was substantial interference with the Tenants’
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit.
 
67.  The Tenants assert that the substantial interference began in November
of 2019. It is my understanding that the issues raised
by the Tenants existed prior to November of 2019, but they are not requesting an
abatement for those months because: (a) the Landlord initially advised them that it would take until November
of 2019 to complete the work;
and
(b) the significant loss of
natural light caused by the shrouding did not begin until November of 2019. I also understand that the Tenants
are not seeking a rent abatement for the period after the
shrouding was removed in June of 2020, even though the work continued until
August of 2020.
 
68. 
I find the Tenants
approach to be reasonable and am prepared
to grant a rent abatement for the period from November of
2019 to June of 2020.
 
69.  In conclusion, having regard to the evidence and
considering the factors set out in subsection 8(5) of the General Regulations,
find that a 25% abatement for the period from
November of 2019 to
June of 2020 is appropriate. The Tenants paid rent of $1,739
for the month of November 2019 and then $1,770 from December of 2019 through to
June of 2020. On this basis, the
total abatement that I am ordering is $3,532.25 (1X$434.75 + 7X$442.50 = $3,532.25).
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The application is amended to remove Lesley Black as a Landlord.
 
2.     The Landlord shall pay to the Tenants
$3,532.25, which represents a 25% abatement of rent from November of 2019
to June of 2020.
 
3.     The Landlord shall also pay the Tenants
the filing fee of $45.00.
 
4.    
If the Landlord does not pay the
Tenants the full amount owing by February 28, 2022, simple interest
shall accrue on any amount
remaining unpaid at a rate of 2% per annum.
 
 
January 19, 2022
Date Issued                                                                      E. Patrick Shea
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor
Street, 1st Floor Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.




 
Schedule A
General Regulations, O Reg 516/06
 
8. (1) In this
section,
 
“work” means maintenance, repairs or capital
improvements carried out in a rental unit or a residential complex.
 
(2)  
For the purposes of section 22, paragraph 3 of
subsection 29 (1) and subsection 31 (1) of the Act,
this section applies to the Board in making a determination,
 
(a)  
as to whether a landlord,
superintendent or agent of a landlord, in carrying out work in a rental unit or residential complex, substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the unit
or complex for all usual purposes by
a tenant or former tenant, or by a member of the household
of a tenant or former tenant; and
 
(b)  
whether an abatement of rent is justified in the circumstances.
 
(3)  
In making a determination described in subsection (2),
 
(a)  
the Board shall consider
the effect of the carrying
out of the work on the use of the rental
unit or residential complex by the tenant or former tenant, and by members of
the household of the tenant or former tenant; and
 
(b)  
the Board shall not determine that an interference was substantial unless
the carrying out of the work constituted an
interference that was unreasonable in the circumstances with the use and
enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the tenant or former
tenant, or by a member of the household of the tenant or former tenant.
 
(4)  
If the Board finds that the
landlord, superintendent or agent of the landlord, in carrying out work in a
rental unit or residential complex, substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the unit or complex for all usual purposes by a tenant
or former tenant, or by a member of the household of a tenant
or former tenant,
the Board shall
not order an abatement
of rent if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
 
1.  
The landlord gave notice to the
tenant or former tenant at least 60 days before the commencement of the work,
or, in cases of emergency, as soon as was reasonable in the
circumstances, concerning the work to be carried out.
 
2.   The
landlord gave notice
to any prospective tenant of a rental
unit at the first opportunity to do so before the landlord entered into a new tenancy
agreement with that tenant.
 
3.  
The notice describes the nature of
the work to be carried out, the expected impact on tenants and members of their households and the length
of time the work
is expected to take.
 
4.   The
notice was reasonably accurate and comprehensive in the circumstances at the time it
was given.




 
5.   If there was a significant change in
the information provided under paragraph 3, the landlord provided to the tenant or former tenant
an update to the notice
in a timely manner.
 
6.  
The work,
 
i.  is necessary to protect or restore the physical integrity
of the residential complex or part of it,
 
ii.  is
necessary to comply
with maintenance, health,
safety or other
housing related standards
required by law,
 
iii.  is necessary to maintain a plumbing, heating,
mechanical, electrical, ventilation or air conditioning
system,
 
iv. 
provides access for persons
with disabilities,
 
v. 
promotes energy or water conservation, or
 
vi. 
maintains or improves the security of the residential complex.
 
7.  
If required under the Building Code Act, 1992, a permit was issued in respect
of the work.
 
8.  
The work was carried
out at reasonable times, or if a municipal noise control by-law
was in effect, during the
times permitted under the noise control by-law.
 
9.  
The duration of the work was reasonable in the circumstances.
 
10. The landlord
took reasonable steps to minimize any interference resulting from noise associated with the work.
 
(5)  
If the Board finds that the
landlord, superintendent or agent of the landlord, in carrying out work in a rental unit or residential complex,
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the unit or complex for all usual purposes by a
tenant or former tenant, or by a member of the household of a tenant or former
tenant, and an abatement of rent is not prohibited under subsection (4), the
Board shall consider the following in determining whether it is appropriate to
order an abatement of rent and the amount of the abatement:
 
1.  
The nature,
duration and degree
of interference with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or residential complex that was caused by the carrying out of the work.
 
2.   Whether the tenant or former tenant
is responsible for any
undue delay in the carrying
out of the work.
 
3.   The
steps taken by the landlord
during the work to minimize
interference with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental
unit or residential complex.
 
4.  
Whether the tenant or former tenant
took advantage of any
service provided by the landlord or arrangement made by the landlord
that would minimize
interference with the reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex.




 
5.   Whether a failure to carry out the work could, within
a reasonable period of time, reasonably be
expected to result in,
 
i.  interference with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex for all usual
purposes by a tenant or member of his or her household,
 
ii. 
a
reduction or discontinuation of a service
or facility,
 
iii.  damage or additional damage
to the rental unit, the residential complex
or anything in the unit or
complex,
 
iv. 
a
risk to any person’s health or personal
safety, or
 
v. 
a
breach of section 20 or section 161 of the Act by the landlord.
 
(6)  
Except as permitted under
subsection (7), no abatement of rent shall exceed 25 per cent of the monthly
rent for each month or part of a month during which there was substantial
interference with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential
complex for all usual purposes by the tenant or former tenant,
or by a member of the household
of the tenant or former tenant.
 
(7)   The
Board may order an abatement of rent that exceeds 25 per cent of the monthly rent for a rental unit if,
 
(a)  
the Board considers a larger abatement
to be warranted in the circumstances because
the interference with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or
residential complex far exceeded the level that would normally be expected,
taking into consideration all of the relevant circumstances; and
 
(b)  
the Board is satisfied that,
 
(i)  
the work is not work described
in paragraph 6 of subsection (4),
 
(ii)   the
work was carried
out at unreasonable times or at a time that is not permitted
under any applicable noise control by-law,
 
 
(iii)  the
work was carried
out in a manner that contravened a condition or requirement of a building permit issued under the
Building Code Act, 1992,
 
 
(iv)
the work was carried out over a
period of time far in excess of the amount of time that normally would be
required, after taking into consideration any exceptional circumstances beyond
the control of the landlord, including weather-related delays, delays in obtaining necessary
government approvals or permits and delays caused by
market shortages of suitable
goods or services or qualified labour at reasonable
costs, or




 
(v)  
the landlord refused to take
reasonable steps during the work to minimize interference with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex for all usual purposes by the tenant or former tenant,
or by a member of the household of the tenant or former tenant.
 
(8)  
The Board shall not order an
abatement of rent that exceeds 100 per cent of the monthly rent for each month or part of a month
during which the Board determines that the work substantially interfered with
the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex for all
usual purposes by the tenant or former tenant,
or by a member of the household
of the tenant or former tenant.

