Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
TST-15244-20

Citation:	Wang v Panthera Building Corp, 2022 CanLII 54188 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpx7d>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TST-15244-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


506, 970 O'CONNOR DRIVE TORONTO ON M4B2T4


 




Between:


Zhen Wang Zheng Yuan


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Panthera
Building Corp Norbert
  Cotovio


Landlords



 
 
Zhen Wang and Zheng Yuan (the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that Norbert Cotovio and Panthera Building Corp (the 'Landlords')
substantially interfered with their reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit and
residential complex, and harassed them.
 
This application
was heard by videoconference on December 14, 2021. The Tenants and the Tenants’ Mandarin language
translator, James Gan, were present
at the hearing. The Landlord was also present at the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
1.    
On April 17, 2020, the
Tenants filed a T2 application (T2) pursuant to s. 29(1) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the
'Act') alleging the Landlord substantially interfered with their reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit,
and harassed them.
 
2.    
The Tenants
moved into the rental unit on
May 1, 2006 and continue
to reside in the unit. The monthly rent is $850.51.
 
Substantial Interference and Harassment
 
3.    
The Tenants
alleged that from August 5, 2017 to December 9, 2019 the Landlord took unauthorized pictures and video
of their unit or themselves on 11 separate occasions, and on one occasion
barged into their unit, resulting
in substantial interference of their reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit as well as harassment. The alleged incidents occurred on the dates as follows:
 
a)    
August 5, 2017;
b)    
September 5 and 6, 2017;
c) April 26, 2018;
d) July 16 and 17, 2018;
e) October
24, 2018;




 
f)    March 25, 2019;
g) April
18, 2019;
h) May 6, 2019;
i)       
October 19, 2019; and
j)       
December 9,
2019.
 
4.    
The alleged
incidents in paragraph 3a through 3e all occurred
more than one year before April 17, 2020, the date the
Tenants filed this application. While
all limitation periods were suspended in Ontario during the period March 16,
2020 to September 14, 2020 pursuant to an order under the Emergency Order
Management and Civil Protection Act, this application was still filed more
than 1 year after the alleged incidents even after the period of suspension is
accounted for. Therefore, given the one-year limitation period contained in s.
29(2), the allegations cannot be considered.
 
5.    
The alleged
incident in paragraph
3f occurred more than one year before
the application was filed.
However, as noted above, all limitation periods were suspended in Ontario
during the period March 16, 2020 to September 14, 2020. Therefore, once the
period of suspension is accounted for, this allegation does fall within one
year of the date of the application and can therefore be considered.
 
6.    
I am satisfied that the allegations in paragraph 3g, h, i, and j above can be considered as they occurred less than one year before the application was
filed.
 
7.    
The Tenants
alleged that each of the five incidents
in paragraph 3f through 3j resulted in both substantial interference and
harassment by the Landlord. For this
reason, each incident was considered individually, and a finding was provided
with respect to substantial interference
and harassment. In addition, the totality of all five
incidents was also considered to
determine if the Landlord’s conduct, as
a single pattern of behaviour, resulted
in substantial interference or harassment.
 
8.    
The Divisional Court
has provided some guidance on the issue of landlords taking photographs of
rental units. In Nickoladze v
Bloor Street Investments/Advent Property Management, 2015 ONSC 3893 the
Court determined that the fact that photographs were taken does not, by itself, constitute an infringement of
the tenant’s privacy rights. It would
only constitute an infringement if it was
done for an improper purpose. In Juhasz
v Hymas, 2016 ONSC 1650 the Court held that taking photographs of a person’s
home and personal belongings
without their consent and posting these photographs on the internet clearly
infringes privacy interests.
 
Substantial Interference
 
9.  
Section 22 of the Act
states:
 
A landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy of a
rental unit and before the day on which an order evicting the tenant is
executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all usual purposes by a
tenant or members of his or her household.




 
Harassment
 
10.  Section 23 of the Act states:
 
A landlord
shall not harass,
obstruct, coerce, threaten
or interfere with a
tenant.
 
11.  While there is no definition of
“harassment” in the Act, it is generally held that “harassment” is a course of conduct
that a reasonable person knows or ought to know would be unwelcome.
 
March 25, 2019
 
12.  The Tenant testified that on March 25, 2019 at approximately 1:40 pm the Superintendent
knocked on the unit’s front door, and when she opened the front door, the Superintendent and another individual then
barged in and proceeded directly to the bathroom to test the water. The Tenant noted that this entry occurred
without providing 24 hours prior notice. The Tenant submitted a letter, dated April 8, 2019, advising the Landlord of this entry and requesting 24-hours notice for
future entries.
 
13.  The Tenant did not allege illegal entry by
the Superintendent on the T2 application or during the hearing; however,
she alleged that this incident
made her feel uncomfortable,
interfered with her reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit, and was harassing. The Tenant did not provide additional
witness or video evidence of this incident.
 
14.  The Landlord testified
that the municipality had ordered an inspection of the hot water in the
unit based on a
complaint by the Tenant. The city inspector
advised the Landlord
of the testing date and time and then a
24-hour written notice was provided to the Tenants regarding the
inspection. The Landlord stated that
the Superintendent and the city inspector attended the unit on March 25, 2019 to determine if the temperature of the hot water was sufficient in comparison to
other locations in the residential complex.
 
15.  The Landlord noted that he had the 24-hour
written notice to the Tenants on file, as well as correspondence of his coordination with the city inspector, the Superintendent and the
Tenants, but he was unable to retrieve these documents during the hearing. The Superintendent no longer works at the
residential complex, and was not available to testify at the hearing.
 
16.  I am satisfied that the Superintendent and
a city inspector entered the rental unit on March 25, 2019 on the basis of
a municipal order derived from a
maintenance request and complaint from
the Tenants of insufficient hot water
in the unit. I am also
satisfied that on March 25, 2019 the Tenant opened the front door, allowed the
Superintendent and inspector to enter the unit, and was aware of the reason
for the visit. I accept that the
visit timing was a surprise
for the Tenant and disrupted her enjoyment
of the rental unit for the duration
of the visit; however, I do not accept that this interference was significant. I am satisfied
that the interference caused by the hot
water testing was not
substantial, and therefore, I find that the Landlord did not breach his
responsibilities pursuant to s. 22 of the Act.




 
17.  I am also satisfied that the Superintendent’s visit to the unit and the action
of testing the hot water would not be considered, by
a reasonable person, to be unwelcome. I
therefore find that the Superintendent’s action
of visiting the unit to test the hot water was not harassment, and that the Landlord
did not breach his obligations pursuant to s. 23 of the Act.
 
April 18, 2019
 
18.  The Tenant testified that at 8:35 am on
April 18, 2019 at the front yard of the residential complex the Landlord walked
toward her holding up his cell phone and took a video of her and two other
tenants without her permission. The
Tenant submitted a letter, dated April 23, 2019 and signed by the other two
tenants, advising the Landlord that they considered this conduct harassment and requested the Landlord to cease this behaviour immediately. In the
letter the Tenant also noted
that the Landlord
captured video images of other tenants. The Tenant
did not provide additional witness or video evidence of this incident.
 
19.  The Landlord testified that he did walk by
the Tenant and the two other tenants on the morning of April 18, 2019, but that he did not take a video or a picture of the Tenant and the tenants.
 
20.  Although the Tenant submitted a letter,
signed by two other tenants, that the Landlord took a video of them the morning
of April 18, 2019, without further witness testimony of this incident from the
other tenants, I am not satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that the
Landlord took photos of the Tenant and two other tenants. The Tenant has not established that she
and the tenants were the subjects of a video or picture taken by the Landlord. I therefore find that the Landlord did not breach
his responsibilities pursuant
to
s. 22 and s. 23 of the Act.
 
May 6, 2019
 
21.  The Tenant testified that at 2:25 pm on May
6, 2019 in the parking lot of the residential complex the Landlord took a video
of her and another tenant
from his truck. The Tenant stated that she called the police
as a result of this incident and previous photo taking incidents. The Tenant did not provide additional
witness or video evidence of this incident.
 
22.  The Landlord testified that he was driving
his truck in the parking lot of the residential complex on May 6, 2019, but that he did not take any video or photos of the Tenant
or the other tenant. The Landlord stated that the police did
talk to him, but advised him that they
would not proceed further with the Tenant’s allegations – as indicated in the
police report of this matter.
 
23.  On the basis of the evidence provided, I am
satisfied that the Landlord did not take photos of the Tenant from his truck on
May 6, 2019. The Tenant did not
establish that the Landlord, from his truck, took photos or a video of her in
the parking lot of the residential complex on May 6, 2019. I therefore find that the Landlord
did not breach his
responsibilities pursuant to s. 22 and s. 23 of the Act.




 
October 19, 2019
 
24.  The Tenant testified that at 12:20 pm on
October 19, 2019 the Superintendent came to the unit to inspect for ants and he
took videos of the kitchen and bathroom. The
Tenant testified further that she asked the Superintendent to stop taking
videos, and he responded that he was just taking photos
and not videos. The Tenant stated that she felt very insecure about the visit,
especially since her daughter was home, and therefore called the police at 1:12
pm. The Tenant noted that the police
did not want to lay any charges as a result of this incident. The Tenant did not provide additional
witness or video evidence of this incident.
 
25.  The Landlord testified that the Superintendent visited the rental
unit on October 19, 2019
as a result of numerous
Tenant complaints about
pest control, and specifically ants. The
Landlord testified further that the Superintendent took pictures of any items
in the unit’s kitchen or bathroom that would attract ants. These pictures were used to prepare a
report to the Tenants on how the Landlord would provide pest control for the unit. The Landlord submitted this report, dated October 21,
2019, advising the Tenants about pest
mitigation strategies, and preparing the unit for commercial pest control
treatments.
 
26.  On the basis of the evidence provided, I am
satisfied that on October 19, 2019 the Superintendent took photos, not videos,
in the unit’s kitchen and bathroom for the purpose of identifying items that
would attract pests. I am also
satisfied that the Superintendent’s actions of
taking these photos did not significantly impair the Tenant’s reasonable enjoyment
of her rental unit, and were taken on the basis of earlier Tenant requests to remedy an ant problem in her unit. The Tenant did not establish
that she or
her daughter
were the subjects
of these photos,
or that when she felt uncomfortable as a
result of the visit she asked the Superintendent to leave the unit. I am satisfied that the interference caused
by the photo taking was not substantial, and therefore, I find that the
Landlord did not breach his responsibilities pursuant to s. 22 of the Act.
 
27.  I am also satisfied that the action of
taking these pest control photos would not be considered, by a reasonable
person, to be unwelcome. I therefore
find that the Superintendent’s action of taking the photos was not harassment, and that the Landlord
did not breach his obligations pursuant to s. 23 of the Act.
 
December 9,
2019
 
28.  The Tenants testified that during their
absence from the unit, the Superintendent visited the unit on December
9, 2019 to fix the bathtub tap, and took pictures of their unit without
their permission. The Tenants stated
that the entry to their unit was not at issue, but rather the picture taking
was not authorized. The Tenants
submitted an 11-minute surveillance video of their kitchen, commencing at
approximately 3:06 pm, showing the Superintendent taking photos in the kitchen,
particularly around the sink, and an Orkin pest control technician applying a
pest control treatment in the kitchen.
 
29.  The Landlord testified
that the Superintendent visited the rental
unit on December 9, 2019
to fix the bathtub tap and to take pictures to ensure that the pest control
treatments were effective. The
Landlord submitted a 24-hour notice of entry, dated December 6, 2019, advising
the Tenants of a unit entry on December 9, 2019 to fix the bathtub tap, and for




 
Orkin pest
control to provide a third treatment to counter Pharaoh ants. The Landlord also submitted an Orkin
invoice for this third treatment for the unit showing an entry time of 3:04 pm and a departure time of 3:29 pm. The Landlord noted that these pest control
treatments were being conducted as a result of a work order from the Tenants.
 
30.  On the basis of the evidence provided, I am
satisfied that on December 9, 2019 the Superintendent took photos in the unit’s
kitchen for the purpose of ensuring that pest control treatments were
effective. I am also satisfied that
these pictures were taken in conjunction with the third Orkin pest control
treatment for the unit – as requested by the Tenants. I am also satisfied that the Superintendent’s actions of taking
these photos did not significantly impair the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of
their rental unit. The Tenants did
not establish the degree to which these photos interfered with their reasonable
enjoyment of their rental unit. I am
satisfied that the interference caused by the
photo taking was not substantial, and therefore, I find that the Landlord
did not breach his responsibilities pursuant to s. 22 of the Act.
 
31.  I am also satisfied that the action of
taking these pest control photos would not be considered, by a reasonable
person, to be unwelcome. I therefore
find that the Superintendent’s action of taking the photos was not harassment, and that the Landlord
did not breach his obligations pursuant to s. 23 of the Act.
 
Landlord’s Ongoing Conduct
 
32.  In addition to considering whether the five
incidents raised by the Tenants, as listed in paragraph 3f through 3j above, constitute substantial interference and harassment, I have
also considered whether they, in totality, constitute substantial interference
and harassment as a result of the Landlord’s ongoing conduct.
 
33.  Of the five incidents raised by the Tenants, on April 18, 2019 and May 6, 2019, it was not determined that the Landlord
took photos of the Tenants. On
October 19, 2019 and December 9, 2019 photos were taken in the rental unit for
the purpose of Tenant requested pest control.
The visit of the Superintendent and city inspector to the unit on March
25, 2019 was for the purpose of municipally mandated hot water testing in
response to the Tenant complaints.
 
34.  I am satisfied that when photos
were taken by the Landlord
they were taken for legitimate maintenance reasons in the
rental unit, and not to capture images of the Tenants or their personal
belongings. Therefore, the purpose of
taking the photos was not improper, and there was no evidence submitted
that the photos were disseminated beyond the Landlord’s internal files. I am also satisfied the photos were taken
discretely to mitigate interference with the Tenants’ enjoyment of their rental
unit and the residential complex. This discretion is apparent in the Tenants’
video evidence of the Superintendent taking pictures in the unit on December 9,
2019.
 
35.  On the basis
of the evidence provided, I am satisfied
that the Landlord’s interference of the
Tenants through taking photos in the unit, and the unit visit on March 25,
2019, in their totality, was not substantial.
I therefore find that the Landlord did not breach his responsibilities
pursuant to s. 22 of the Act.




 
36.  I am also satisfied that the
Superintendent’s hot water testing visit to the unit on March 25, 2019, and
taking pest control related photos on October 19, 2019 and December 9, 2019 would not be considered
in their totality, by a reasonable
person, to be unwelcome. I accept that the hot water testing was conducted,
and the pest control photos were taken, both for the benefit of the Tenants. I therefore find that the Landlord’s
actions of visiting the unit for hot water testing
and taking pest control photos to be reasonable, and not harassment directed at the
Tenants. I find that the Landlord did
not breach his obligations pursuant to s. 23 of the Act.
 
Summary
 
37.  As the Tenants have not established that
the Landlord substantially interfered with their reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit, or harassed them, the Tenants’
application must be denied.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1. The Tenants’ application is dismissed.
 
 
January 5, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Frank Ebner
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor
Street, 1st Floor Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

