Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-07
File number:	
TST-15733-20

Citation:	Hendricks v Mylavarapu, 2022 CanLII 75218 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrjjh>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 



 


Order under
Section 41
Residential Tenancies Act,
2006


 




 


File Number:
TST-15733-20




 
In the matter
  of:


 
1004, 77 MAITLAND PLACE TORONTO ON M4Y2V6


 




Between:


Bryn Hendricks


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Srikanth Mylavarapu


Landlord



 
 
 
Bryn Hendricks (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Srikanth Mylavarapu (the 'Landlord'):
(a)  
harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with the Tenant;
(b)  
altered the locking system
on a door giving entry
to the rental unit or residential
complex without giving the Tenant replacement keys;
(c)  
substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or by a
member of the Tenant's household;
(d)  
withheld or deliberately
interfered with the reasonable supply of a vital service, care service, or food that the Landlord
is obligated to supply under the tenancy
agreement;
(e)  
sold, retained or otherwise
disposed of the Tenant's property
before 72 hours had
elapsed after the Tenant was evicted and the Landlord did not make the Tenant's property available to be
retrieved at a location close to the rental unit during the agreed-upon hours
within 72 hours after the Tenant was evicted.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on October 26, 2021.
 
The Tenant, the Landlord’s Legal Representative, Natasha
Mizzi, and the Landlord attended
the hearing. The Tenant spoke with Duty Counsel during the course of the
proceeding.
 
Determinations:
 
1.       
At the hearing the Tenant stated he is only seeking
to have the Board determine
one issue: when his tenancy terminated.
 
2.       
The Tenant requested an adjournment to which the Landlord objected. The Tenant stated he would be receiving documents
next week in response to a freedom of information request which he asserted
were relevant to the issue of when his tenancy terminated.




 
3.       
The Landlord sought to dismiss the entirety of the Tenant’s
application on the grounds
that the issues raised by the Tenant, including when the tenancy terminated,
have already been determined by the Board.
 
4.       
The Landlord’s motion to dismiss
is granted. As set out below, I find the Board has already addressed the issue of when this tenancy terminated. Therefore, having regard
to the doctrines of collateral attack and issue estoppel, the Board will
not reconsider this issue and the adjournment is unnecessary.
 
Chronology of Proceedings
 
5.       
The tenancy between the Tenant and the Landlord
began in 2018.
 
6.       
On June 10, 2019, the Board heard
an application (File TSL-05177-19) for rent arrears filed by the Landlord and
granted a standard order on June 14, 2019, terminating the tenancy due to non-payment of rent (the “Eviction Order”).
The Tenant was not present
at the hearing. The Eviction Order terminated the tenancy effective
June 14, 2019, but gave
the Tenant until June 25, 2019, to pay the arrears owing and void the
termination failing which he would have to vacate the rental unit.
 
7.       
The Tenant filed a request to review
the Eviction Order on June 29, 2019.
By Order dated July 4, 2019 (the “Review Order”),
the request for review was denied as the Vice-Chair was not satisfied there was
a serious error or that a serious error had occurred in the proceeding.
 
8.       
The Eviction Order was enforced by the Sheriff
on July 18, 2019.
 
9.       
The Tenant filed an appeal of the Eviction Order and Review Order to
the Divisional Court and brought an
urgent motion to be restored to possession of the rental unit.
 
10.    By endorsement dated August 2, 2019, the Divisional
Court held it lacked jurisdiction to consider
the Tenant’s request
as the Eviction Order was lawfully enforced
before the stay order issued and the Tenant was no
longer in possession of the rental unit. Further, the Divisional Court held
even if it had jurisdiction, the Tenant had not met the test to be restored.
One of the issues the Tenant raised was he was not able to raise as an issue
the fact that he signed multiple leases. However, the Divisional Court noted it
appeared that the adjudicator who made the Eviction Order would have been aware
of this issue.
 
11.    As of the date of the hearing
of this application it appeared
the Tenant’s appeal has not been perfected.
 
The Tenant’s
Current Application
 
12.    The Landlord’s motion
to dismiss is granted.
 
13.   
The Board determined in the Eviction
Order that the tenancy between
this Tenant and Landlord is terminated effective
June 14, 2019. The findings
in the Eviction Order can only be challenged by means of a
review request or an appeal. As noted above, the




 
Tenant’s request to review
the Eviction Order
was unsuccessful and the Tenant
appears to have abandoned his appeal of the Eviction Order.
 
14.    The Tenant is attempting to have the Board reconsider
an issue that has already been determined by the Board and this is an improper
collateral attack on the Eviction
Order. It is also likely barred
by the doctrine of issue estoppel as the issue of when the tenancy between the
Landlord and Tenant was terminated was addressed in a final manner by the Board
in the Eviction Order. Commencing a new application to address the termination
of this tenancy, even with new or further evidence, is not an avenue open to
the Tenant.
 
15.   
The Tenant also advanced
arguments regarding other leases signed and who is listed
on the Eviction Order. I do not find this has any bearing on the issue
of whether this Tenant is attempting to relitigate a matter that has already
been determined by the Board.
 
16.    In light of my above ruling, the Tenant’s request
for an adjournment was denied.
 
17.    I appreciate the Tenant expressed confusion about the
date his tenancy terminated. There are different dates that may be relevant
regarding the end point of a tenancy. These may include the end of a rental
period under a lease, the date of termination in a notice of termination, the date by which a voidable eviction
order may be voided, the date
an eviction order may be enforced, and the date an eviction order is enforced.
 
18.    As set out above, in this case, the tenancy
was terminated by the Eviction Order effective
June 14, 2019 and the Tenant was lawfully evicted by the Sheriff on July 18,
2019.
 
19.   
If the Tenant wishes
further clarification, he is free to seek legal advice
on any element he does not
understand.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.       
The Tenant’s application is dismissed.
 
 
 
January 7, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Rebecca Case
Member,
Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor
Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

