Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-19
File number:	
TST-13211-20

Citation:	Keating v Coudet, 2022 CanLII 75000 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrjj9>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 31, 57 and 135
Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TST-13211-20
 
 
 
 



In the matter
of:


3802, 35 MARINER TERRACE TORONTO ON M5V3V9


 




Between:


Ryley Keating
  Vivian Lau


Tenants




 


 
and


 




 


Jean-Paul Coudet


Landlord



 
 
T1 Application:
 
Ryley Keating and Vivian Lau (the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that Jean-Paul
Coudet (the 'Landlord') has collected or retained money illegally.
 
T2 Application:
 
Ryley Keating and Vivian Lau (the
'Tenants') applied for an order determining that Jean-Paul Coudet (the
'Landlord') harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with them
and substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the
Tenants or by a member of their household.
 
T5 Application:
 
Ryley Keating and Vivian Lau (the 'Tenants') applied
for an order determining that John-Paul Coudet (‘the Landlord’)
gave a notice of termination in bad faith.
 
This application was heard via video conference on December
16, 2021.
 
Only the Tenant, Ryley Keating and the Tenant’s
Legal Representative, Ashley
Friel attended the hearing.
 
Determinations:
 
T5 Application:
 
1.    
On February 16, 2019, the Landlord
sent an email to the Tenants saying
in part:




 
Unfortunately, my life plans
have changed and I will need to move in to my condo July 1, 2019 as I will no
longer have my current place of residence. I
thought by giving you this notice well in advance
of 4 ½ months can help prepare
you guys for your journey finding a new place that
you can call home.
 
I apologize if I caused any inconvenience, and want to thank you
again…
 
2.     On March 5, 2019, the Tenant testified that he had a
telephone conversation with the Landlord where they discussed the need for an N12 notice of termination. The Tenant
took notes from this conversation later in the day where he detailed the
following:
 
•       
Tenant explained compensation options
of N12;
 
•       
Landlord strongly disagreed; advised
Tenants would need to take Landlord to court if wanting money;
 
•       
Tenant advised was only told about
this form recently
by realtor and N12
required as a part of the process
 
•       
Landlord advised that he would look into it
 
3.    
The Landlord emailed the Tenants later on
the same day, March 5, 2019, stating that he
confirmed with the Board that a termination date cannot be earlier than 60 days after the date the Landlord gave notice to the
Tenants and also stated:
 
If you require to end your
tenancy earlier than our 60 day window of notice…for example on your lease
agreement termination date of Tuesday April 30th 2019 in which the 60 day window has passed but I may be able to entertain
your offer if we
can come to an agreement
 
please let me know ASAP as I
would need to make the necessary arrangements if possible, and we can also set up the inspection date in which I will be inspecting the unit prior to the return of your deposit check for the keys
and fobs return
 
I would be happy to recommend
you as a great tenant if you do need me as a reference in the near future and can also use this email thread
as a termination notice for your future rental endeavors
 
4.    
In an email of March 6, 2019, the Realtor for the Tenants
emailed the Landlord
stating that the Landlord’s email was not sufficient notice for
termination or eviction.
Furthermore, the Realtor provided
information regarding compensation to be paid to the Tenants and that the Landlord or their family member was to stay in the rental unit for a period of
one year. The Realtor stated that:
 
I spoke to the landlord tenant board as well this morning and they confirmed that an email is not
written notice for termination. They let me know that Vivian and Ryley can stay
in the unit if proper notice is not given - they do not have to vacate in this




 
case Riley and Vivian
are not looking
to terminate their lease at 35 mariner
terrace and would like to stay if you do not move in
 
….
 
If you would like to move in to the unit,
could you please
provide them with the
proper N12 form?
 
5.     In an email from the Tenants to the Landlord on March
11, 2019, the Tenants stated: “In addition,
please note that as per your emails
and our discussions over the past week, we
have been made aware that we are not obligated to vacate the unit unless it is
in accordance with an order from the Landlord and Tenant Board”
 
6.     The Tenants sent an email to the Landlord on April 9, 2019 indicating that:
 
In response to your earlier requests,
we have vacated the rental unit…As indicated in the 8 notices that you provided
to us, our tenancy ends on the day that we move out. While we wholeheartedly disagree with the contents of the N7 and N5 forms as grounds for eviction, we believe that
it is in our best interest to terminate our landlord/tenant relationship, as we
believe that this relationship has caused us to come under undue stress over
the past several weeks.
 
…
 
Therefore, our tenancy has ended as of today,
Tuesday April 9, 2019. …We have
left our 2 set of keys… at the front desk with the concierge.
 
7.     The Tenants testified that the Landlord
never served an N12 notice
to terminate upon them.
 
8.     This T5 application was filed pursuant
to s. 57(1)(a) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) which says:
 
The Board may make an order described in subsection (3) if, on application by a
former tenant of a rental unit, the Board determines that,
 
…
 
(a)       the landlord gave a notice of termination under
section 48 in bad faith, the former tenant vacated the rental unit
as a result of the notice or as a result of an application to or order made by
the Board based on the notice, and no person referred to in clause 48 (1)(a),
(b), (c), or (d) occupied the rental unit within a reasonable time after the
former tenant vacated the rental unit.
 
9.     The first issue that arises here is whether or not it
makes a difference that the Landlord did not serve on the Tenants a notice of
termination that complies with s. 48 of the Act. The email sent on February 16, 2019 does not meet the legal requirements for notice of termination.




 
10.  I do not believe the fact the notice was invalid matters.
I say this because the Tenants did in fact receive a notice that the
Landlords wanted them to vacate for the purposes of personal use. It would be
unfair to allow the Landlord to circumvent the Act or escape liability
simply because he failed to comply with the correct procedures.
 
11.  Further, it would be contrary
to the intent of the Act to disallow applications under s. 57 just because the Landlords’ notice of
termination is invalid.
 
12.  The second issue that arises here is whether or not
the Tenants vacated as a result of the emailed notice of February 16, 2019. In other words, was the email stating that the Landlord wanted
to move into the rental
unit the real reason
why the Tenants
vacated?
 
13.  I am not satisfied that Tenants vacated
the rental unit due to the notice
to vacate provided by the Landlord on February 16,
2019. I say this because:
 
•        
in a number of email
communications from the Tenants to the Landlord, the Tenants made it very clear that they knew they did not have to vacate
the rental property without
an N12 notice to terminate and that they did
not have to vacate
the rental unit.
 
•        
the Tenants also had advice of
their Realtor and the Tenants confirmed that they received clarification of their rights
from the Landlord
and Tenant Board
regarding whether they had to vacate the rental unit or not;
 
•        
the Tenants confirmed that an N12 notice to terminate was never provided
to them from the Landlord;
 
•        
In their email communication of April 9, 2019,
the Tenants state that
they vacated the rental unit “in
response to your earlier requests” and “as indicated in the 8
notices that you provided
to us, our tenancy ends on the day that we move out”.
 
•        
In their email communication of April 9, 2019, the Tenants state:
“while we whole heartedly
disagree with the contents of the N7 and N5 forms as grounds for eviction, we
believe that it is in our best interest to terminate our landlord/tenant relationship”.
 
14.  Subsection 57(1) (a) of the Act establishes a three-part test. In order to be successful in their T5 application, the Tenants must
establish all three of the requirements of subsection 57(1)(a) on a balance of
probabilities:
 
•        
First, that the Landlord
gave a notice of termination under section 48 of the Act (the N12 notice) in bad faith;
•        
Second, that the Tenant
vacated the rental
unit as a result of the N12 notice or Board order based on the
N12 notice;
•        
Third, that the person
named in the N12 notice
did not move into the rental unit within
a reasonable time after the Tenant vacated.




 
15.  On an application to the Board, the person who alleges
a particular event occurred has the burden of proof to establish that it is more likely than not that their
version of events is true.
In this application, the burden typically falls on the Tenant to establish that the notice of termination was served in bad
faith.
 
16.  Based on the evidence and submissions, and on a
balance of probabilities, I am not satisfied
that the Tenants have met the second
requirement of subsection 57(1)(a) of the Act and vacated
the rental unit due to a notice being
received for the Landlord’s personal use. The Tenant’s T5 application is therefore dismissed.
 
T2 Application:
 
17.  In their T2 application, the Tenants claim that the
Landlord harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with them and
substantially interfered with the reasonable
enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their household.
 
18.  The Tenants provided written notes from a telephone
conversation that took place between the Landlord
and Tenant on March 7, 2019. In those notes,
the Tenants wrote that the Landlord advised
he could find listings for the
Tenants, the Landlord questioned
why they couldn't just be friends about it and
end as friends and the Tenants noted that while they understood the
Landlord’s position, they wanted to follow the legal process involved for an
N12 notice to terminate.
 
19.  The Tenant testified that after the Landlord provided
a notice to vacate the rental unit, the Landlord sent him an email with
28 rental listings attached similar to the rental unit they were currently
renting from the Landlord on March 8, 2019.
 
20.  During his telephone
conversations with the Landlord, the Tenant stated
that the Landlord became hostile, would raise his
voice over the phone and that their relationship deteriorated. The Tenant stated that the Landlord
accused them of only coming after the Landlord for his money.
 
21.  The Tenant stated
that the Landlord
proceeded to contact
them via telephone on a number of occasions and it was unwanted.
 
22.  The Tenant stated that the Landlord harassed the
Tenants by delivering two notices of entry a day apart. While the notices were difficult to read, it was suggested that
the notices of entry stated that they were to inspect the premises and to
identify repairs for HVAC, fans, filters…”. The Tenant stated
that these notices
were because the Landlord was attempting to use
alternate means to evict the Tenants for damages.
 
23.  On March 19, 2019, the Landlord served the Tenants
with notices stating that they were being evicted because of significant damage
to the rental unit. The Tenants
denied this and stated that because they did not vacate due to the notice for N12 issue,
the Landlord was now trying
to evict them by alleging significant damage to the rental unit.




 
24.  The Landlord served an N4 notice for non-payment of
rent, an N5 notice pertaining to damage and an N7 notice for impairment of safety
and then filed an L2 application to end
a tenancy and evict a tenant with the Board under file number TSL-05034-19. An order was granted in the Landlord’s
favour which the Tenants requested be reviewed. At the review hearing, the Landlord failed to appear so his L2
application was deemed to be abandoned.
 
25.  It is the Tenants’ position
that the Landlord
interfered and harassed
the Tenants after the
Tenants attempted to exercise their rights under the Act, that the
Landlord was verbally abusive during interactions with the Tenants and that the
Landlord’s behaviour was egregious.
 
26.  The Tenant’s T2 application is based on s. 22 of the Residential Tenancies Act 2006 (the
“Act”) which states:
 
A landlord shall not at any time
during a tenant’s occupancy of a rental unit and before the day on which an
order evicting the tenant is executed substantially interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential complex in which it is located for all
usual purposes by a tenant or members of his or her household.
 
27.  While the term “harassment” is not defined
in the Act, it is generally
taken to be defined
as a course of conduct that a reasonable person knows or ought to know would be
unwelcome.
 
28.  The conduct need not be more than one instance and a
tenant is not required to demonstrate a pattern
of behaviour in order to show that a landlord
has breached the Act.
 
29.  Based on the evidence and submissions,
I am
not convinced on a balance
of probabilities that the
Landlord knew or ought to have known, that the email communications were
harassing. I say this because
in a telephone conversation on March 7, 2019, the Tenants
notes indicate that the “Landlord advised can find listings for tenants” and
there was no note or nothing
stated at the hearing where
the Tenants told the Landlord not to send any
listings. It could be plausible that
the Landlord sent the email with 28 listings attached as a result of this
telephone conversation as the email was sent the next day on March 8, 2019.
 
30.  Further, I am
not convinced that the behavior of the Landlord substantially interfered
with the Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. The notices of entry provided by the Board
were served in a timely manner and set out a window of entry as per the Act.
While the Tenants’ position is that the Landlord's behavior was egregious the
Board did not hear what specific behaviour
was so egregious and that it substantially interfered with the
Tenants’ reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit.




 
T1 Application:
 
31.  The Tenant’s claim that they provided a last months’
rent deposit in the amount
of
$2,300.00 to the Landlord prior
to the tenancy beginning on May 1, 2018 and that they are also entitled to compensation of one month due to vacating the rental unit as a result
of an N12 notice to terminate.
 
32.  The Tenants vacated the rental unit on April 9, 2019
and did not provide 60 days notice. However, as they had provided post-dated
cheques to the Tenant, they paid rent for the month of April on the first of
the month when rent was due. The
Tenant’s testified that they left the rental unit as a result of a N12 notice to terminate and other
notices that were served upon them by the Landlord. The Tenants stated that they vacated
pursuant to those notices and the Landlord failed to apply the last month’s
rent deposit or return the deposit to the Tenants.
 
33.  In this case, the Landlord served a number of notices
of termination. The notice terminates the tenancy if the tenant accepts the notice and moves out. So
when the
Tenants moved out of the unit on April 9, 2019,
that was an acceptance of the Landlord’s notice(s) of termination.
 
34.  The Tenants testified
that they paid a last month’s rent deposit in the amount
of
$2,300.00 to the Landlord
at the beginning of the tenancy, and that the Tenants paid their
rent for the April 1 – 30, 20219 rental period.
 
35.  Under subsection 106(10)
of the Act, it is clear that a last month’s rent deposit shall
be applied “for the last rent period before the tenancy terminates”.
 
36.  As the tenancy terminated effective April 9, 2019, I
find the Landlord retained the Tenants’ last month’s
rent deposit and this is prohibited by the
Act. I am therefore
granting the Tenants’ application for the return
of the last month’s rent deposit
in the amount of $2,300.00.
 
37.  As I have found that the Tenants did not vacate the
rental unit as a result of an N12 notice to terminate and dismissed the
Tenant’s T5 application, the Tenants are not entitled to any compensation pertaining to the N12 notice
to terminate as sought
in their T1 application.
 
38.  This order contains
all of the reasons in this matter and no further reasons
will be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord shall pay to the Tenants
the sum of $2,300.00. This amount represents the last month’s rent deposit
that the Landlord did not apply or return to the Tenants.
 
2.     If the Landlord
does not pay the Tenants
the full amount
owing by February
19, 2022, the Landlord will owe interest. This will
be simple interest calculated from February 20, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the
outstanding balance.




 
 
 
 
 
3.    
The Tenants have the right, at any time, to collect
the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
 
 
 
January 19, 2022
Date Issued
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor
Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

