Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
TST-17370-20

Citation:	Davis v Toronto Community Housing Corp., 2022 CanLII 74860 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jrjjk>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section 30
Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006
 
File Number: TST-17370-20
 
 



In the
  matter of:


403, 3725
DUNDAS STREET WEST TORONTO ON M6S2T5


 




Between:


Anastasia Davis


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Toronto Community Housing
  Corp.


Landlord



 
 
 
 
T6
Anastasia Davis (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Toronto Community
Housing Corp. (TCHC) (the 'Landlord') failed to meet the Landlord's
maintenance obligations under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the
'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety, housing or maintenance
standards.
 
T2
Anastasia Davis (the 'Tenant')
applied for an order determining that Toronto Community
Housing Corp. (the 'Landlord') substantially interfered with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenant or
by a member of the Tenant's household.
 
 
This application was heard via videoconference on November 23, 2021.
 
The Tenant and the Landlord’s Legal Representative Kamran
Baradargohari attended the hearing. The Tenant spoke with Duty Counsel prior to the hearing.
 
At the outset of considering the T6 application the parties consented to the amended
application filed November 18, 2021, as these amendments addressed
remedies.
 
Determinations:
 
 
1.     The Tenant filed a T6 application on August 19, 2020 about maintenance, alleging
the Landlord failed to adequately treat the rental unit for bedbugs.
 
2.     The Tenant vacated
the rental unit on December
31, 2020, although
it was uncontested that rent was paid till end March 2021.




 
3.    
The Tenant testified that the bedbugs
were first discovered on May 2, 2020, and that the Landlord was immediately contacted.
 
4.     It was uncontested that there was bedbug treatment
in May 2020, and in July 2020,
as well as treatment for cockroaches in October 2020.
 
5.    
The Tenant testified that notwithstanding these treatments she was
still suffering from bedbug bites into the fall. This forced her to vacate
and move into a homeless
shelter until she could find another place to live.
 
6.     The Tenant testified that as a result of the bedbugs
she was forced to throw out her bedframe, sofa, pillows, bedding and other
items. She had also tried washing
many items that were destroyed in the
wash or still had to be thrown out. She
also had a biopsy of a bite completed in October 2020,
and was prescribed a cream to treat for bites.
 
7.     The Tenant testified that the ineffective treatment
interfered with her reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit. She indicated
that she did not think that the superintendent
was taking her concerns seriously, as she was still being bitten.
 
8.     The Landlord’s witness Thiago Dasilva testified. He is the senior superintendent technician
since May 2018. He reviewed the Landlord documents, in which there were portions
redacted to protect the privacy of others. The
unredacted portions show that other units in the block were also being treated
for bedbugs. The reports from the
post treatment bedbug inspection not only in this rental unit, but those in the
block were presented. These showed no live evidence of live bedbugs.
The witness confirmed that the Tenant always kept a very clean apartment.
 
9.     The witness Dasilva testified that in his experience
bedbugs will follow heat, and in a cluttered apartment they can infest. He confirmed that in a clean apartment
that it is possible that there is no where to hide and thus it is easier
to find an infestation. He could
not confirm nor deny that bedbugs would hide in baseboards and cracks beyond
the comment that they follow heat.
 
10.  The witness confirmed that when treatments were
undertaken that TCHC staff were not present when this work was done. Further that the witness only escorted
personal who were inspecting for bedbugs but that he himself did not conduct
the inspections, as not a specialist in that regard.
 
11.  The Landlord witness Simon Burnell testified. He is employed by TCHC as part of the
environmental health team since March 2020. His
responsibilities include providing pest control advice when escalated
by staff or tenants that are not resolved by treatments. He confirmed that previously was employed by Orkin
Pest Controls where he was a licensed technician since 2010 where he
had received his credentials for pest treatment.




 
12.  Witness Burnell confirmed that he did find a “nymph”
in the rental unit, which is a baby bedbug and that this suggests that there
are other bedbugs in the unit. However,
he could not recall when this was, but suggested it might have been on one of the follow-up inspections. He did confirm that on the block
inspection he did find bedbugs that led to further treatments.
 
13.  To the best of witness Burnell memory he believed that
the block inspection in summer 2020, did lead to discovery of bedbugs in block units. As a result, he did ensure
another round of treatment.
 
14.  The witness testified about having recommended other
work be done in the rental unit, however he did not follow
up to see if it was completed
as he did not think that this was a cause of the bedbug infestation. He
could not say for sure that bedbugs could come not from baseboards, cracks or a
gap in the ceiling, but indicated it did not make sense for them to come from a
fixture in the ceiling.
 
15.  The Landlords witnesses confirmed that the Tenant had not been advised to dispose of any of her possessions as a result of
the bedbugs.
 
16.  I have considered the testimony and the evidence and I
am persuaded that there were bedbugs in the rental unit, and likely in the
block and that although there had been treatments the evidence did not show that it was wholly
effective. The Landlord’s witness did acknowledge that there are other treatment regimes,
such as extreme heat, but that these are cost prohibitive for the Landlord. It was uncontested that the Tenant
continued to show signs of bedbug bites, even if the Landlord could not find
evidence of “live activity”. Therefore,
I find that the Landlord failed to meet the Landlord’s obligations under
subsection 20(1) of the Act.
 
17.  The Tenant took steps on her own, and likely on advice from her health care advisers to dispose of items, and worked diligently
to comply with the Landlord’s requirement to prepare her unit for treatment,
and to keep it in a very clean that state, such that I am satisfied that the
failure to adequately address the
bedbugs also substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the
rental unit..
 
18.  The Tenant provided
letters to support
her mental health
claims, and how the presence
of bedbugs has negatively affected her mental health. The Tenant testified about having to take
a year off school as a result of the stress and trauma this caused her, having
to live and deal with bedbugs for eight months. The Tenant relies on ODSP for income and this has also affected
her because she could not afford market rents and ended up in a homeless
shelter for a time. She testified, about how her mental health was negatively
affected and that this was a “really big hardship” that as a university student
she ended up taking a year off.




 
19.  It was undisputed that the tenant voluntarily disposed
of some of her possessions. I note that this would be a reasonable expectation when treating for bedbugs. If bedbugs follow heat, then logically, they would
be in the sofa and bed, where the source of heat is present, and for which it
is difficult to treat. The disposal of pillows, and other things also follows
this rationale action. That it
was voluntary does not mean it
was not necessary. I am satisfied that the Tenant is entitled
to costs to replace property in the amount of
$750.00. This recognizes that not everything was replaced and that some replacement
furniture was used, given the Tenant relies on ODSP for her income.
 
20.  The Tenant did incur out of pocket
expenses to treat for bedbugs,
to attempt to prevent
them and to clean items possibly infected. I
am satisfied that an amount of $375.00 is reasonable in all the circumstances,
given the Tenant relies on ODSP for her income. although not all that the
Tenant had requested,
 
21.  The Tenant requested
a rent abatement for the months of May to December 2020 when
she vacated in an amount equal to 100%. I
do not find this to be reasonable. I am cognizant that the Landlord made
efforts to treat for bedbugs, albeit however unsuccessful it was for this
Tenant. As such an abatement of 25%
is more reasonable particularly given the impact to the Tenant. Therefore,
an amount for May to December 2020 shall be ordered (8 months X 139 X 25% =
$278.00.)
 
22.  It was uncontested that the Tenant vacated as of
December 31, 2020, even though she paid rent till March 2021. It was also uncontested that the Tenant
finally removed all her possessions by March 9, 2021 when she turned over the
keys. During this period, it was
uncontested that the Tenant was living in a homeless shelter. As a result, I am satisfied that it is reasonable to order a 50% rent rebate for this period.
I note that the Tenant
may have left voluntarily, in that there was no notice of termination,
however the conditions and the impact on the Tenant were significant and
although not fully vacated till early March this is reasonable in all the
circumstances. Therefore, an amount
for January to March 2021 shall be ordered (3 months X 139 X 50% = $208.50)
 
23.  As noted, the Tenant did voluntarily vacate
the rental unit, and remained
in a shelter until a
permanent accommodation was found. In
light of these circumstances, it would be unreasonable to direct any moving and
storage costs.
 
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.     The Landlord shall pay to the Tenant
a rent abatement of $486.50.
 
2.     The Landlord shall also pay to the Tenant $750.00.
This represents the costs that the
Tenant has incurred in replacing property that was disposed of as a result of
the Landlord's failure to maintain the rental unit.
 
3.     The Landlord shall also pay to the Tenant $325.00
which is the reasonable out-of-pocket expenses the Tenant has
incurred for her own treatment and prevention measures.
 
4.      
The Landlord shall also pay the Tenant $53.00
for the cost of filing
the application.




 
5.      
The total amount the Landlord owes the Tenant
is $1,614.50.
 
6.     The Landlord shall pay the Tenant the full amount owing by January 16, 2022.
 
7.     If the Landlord does not pay the Tenant the full
amount owing by January 16, 2022 the Landlord
will owe interest.
This will be simple interest
calculated from January
17, 2022 at 2.00% annually on the outstanding
balance.
 
 
January 5, 2022
Date Issued
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor
Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

