Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-11
File number:	
TST-06192-19

Citation:	TST-06192-19 (Re), 2022 CanLII 54189 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpx78>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
30 and 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TST-06192-19
 
 
 
 
 
NW (the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that LS (the
'Landlord') failed to meet the Landlord's maintenance obligations under the
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
(the 'Act') or failed to comply with health, safety, housing or maintenance
standards (T6 application).
The Tenant also applied for an order
that the Landlord substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit
or residential complex by the Tenant or by a member of the Tenant's household
(T2 application).
This application was heard by videoconference on April 16, 2021 and July 2, 2021.
 
The Tenant,
the Landlord, and the Landlord's Legal Representative, SJS, attended
the hearing.
.
Determinations:
 
1.    
I find the Landlord
breached some of the Landlord’s maintenance obligations contrary
to the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act'). I say this
for the reasons that follow. I
 
2.    
For the reasons that follow, I find that the Landlord did not substantially interfere with the Tenant’s
reasonable enjoyment contrary to the Act, accordingly this application is dismissed.
 
Preliminary Issues
 
Costs
3.    
At the April 16, 2021 hearing
the Tenant raised that the Landlord did not show at the first hearing and at the second
hearing the superintendent did not show. Plus, the superintendent, AG, did not
abide by the Direction dated August 7, 2019 requiring the Tenant and him to
have no communications with each other; the Landlord insisted




 
she deal with him. The Tenant requested costs in the amount of $100.00 payable
to the Board.
 
4.    
The Landlord's Legal
Representative submitted that ordering costs be paid is not reasonable because
there is nothing in the T2 application with respect to the superintendents behaviour
being egregious; it is not up to the Tenant to determine how the Landlord runs his business, a
tenant dealing with the superintendent is a normal course of business. The
Tenant has not made any reference as to how any of this affected her or the
process. Further, the superintendent is at a medical appointment today,
therefore his absence is beyond his control.
 
5.    
For the reasons that follow, I deny the Tenant’s request
for costs. Rule 23 of the Board’s Rules of Practice says with
respect to ordering costs to the Board:
 
23.4 
A party or a paid representative may be ordered
to pay the LTB for its costs of
a proceeding. Hearing costs will not exceed $100.00 per hour to a maximum of
$700.
 
23.5 
The LTB will not order a paid presentative to pay costs
unless the costs
result from the paid representative’s conduct.
 
6.    
Interpretation
Guideline 3 says “When a party or their agent or legal representative acts
improperly or unreasonably in a proceeding, the Board may order one or more of them to
pay to the Board an amount that will partly cover the expenses that the Board
has incurred as a result of that conduct”.
 
7.    
Here, there
are no allegations of improper
or unreasonable behaviour in the proceedings; the issues were with
non-attendance and the Landlord requiring the Tenant to deal with the
superintendent with respect to tenancy issues. Therefore, the Tenant’s request
is denied.
 
Requests
to Amend Applications
8.    
The Tenant
submitted a number of requests to amend her applications prior
to the hearing dates.
Although the Landlord did not dispute any of these amendments
at hearing, for clarification purposes the requests will be addressed in this
order.
 
9.    
The request
to amend the remedies on the T6 application dated May
24, 2019 is denied as it is replaced
with a more recent request.
 
10.  The two requests
dated June 11, 2020 with respect to additional evidence
for the T2 application are granted.
 
11.  The request to amend the T6 application
dated June 11, 202 at 10:36 p.m. to include more evidence is accepted with the
exception of the issues related to no
water in the bathroom sink as this issue was not raised by the Tenant at
hearing. The attachment referencing the smoke
detectors is allowed
as additional evidence
for the T2 application.




 
12.  The second request
to amend the T6 application dated June 11, 2020
at 10:39 p.m., to include an
issue with the gutters, is denied as the Tenant did not raise this issue at hearing.
 
13.  The request to amend the T6 application
dated December 19, 2020 to add additional evidence is granted with the exception of the issues
related to bed bugs, and the gutters, as the Tenant did not raise these issues at hearing. The side door attachment is allowed as additional
evidence for the T2 application.
 
T2 and cleaning
issue
14. 
The
cleaning issue is with respect to compensation for work done for the Landlord.
As this is a contractual issue,
it does not fall under the Board’s
jurisdiction and will not form
part of this order.
 
Parking issue and illegal entry
The testimony
with respect to the superintendent and parking
his vehicle does not form part of this order as the issue is not included in
either the 6 or T2 the applications. The testimony with respect to illegal entry does not form part of this order as the issue
is not included in the T2
application, not was the application amended to include it.
 
Limitation Period
15.  These applications are subject to the one-year
limitation period pursuant
to section 29(2) of the Residential Tenancies
Act, 2006. As the applications were filed May 2, 2019, remedies cannot be
awarded for any issues prior to May 2, 2018.
 
T6 application
 
Tenant’s
Evidence
16. 
Tenant testified to
having issues with the following: The screens; hot water; kitchen sink and
cupboards; heat; and, surrounding property which included snow, halls, and
laundry room.
 
Landlord’s Evidence
17.  The Landlord testified
that the rental complex
is over 50 years old, there are two
buildings connected to each other. They have bee under renovations; whenever a
tenant vacates the unit is renovated and cleaned. The Tenant seemed happy when
she viewed her unit, but as soon as she moved in the complaints started
happening.
18. 
In general,
the Landlord checks
the building every weekend with respect to any issues. The Landlord maintains that all of the Tenant’s
issues have been addressed in a timely manner.
 
19.  AG testified that he oversees the building
maintenance, he used to do a lot of the maintenance himself but cannot anymore.
As the superintendent he collects
the rents, takes care of
tenants’ complaints, ensure the building is up to safety standards and
supervises workers.




 
Screens
Tenant’s Evidence
20.  When the Tenant moved in the end of April
2018, there were no screens in the living room
or her son’s bedroom. She emailed the superintendent, AG (AG)
on May 2, 2018 plus reached out to him on May 29 and June 2, 2018.
 
21.  In end of
June/early July 2018 AG had a worker put Velcro and mesh
as temporary fix on both windows. Approximately October 1, 2018, the entire
living room window and the Tenant’s bedroom window
was replaced; the entire complex
was done. Her son’s
window was repaired approximately the last week of September 2018.
 
22.  The Tenant entered
pictures into evidence
showing the number of bugs around the living room window that resulted in an
excessive number of bugs getting into the unit, which also required extra
cleaning. It also is a safety issue; anyone could get in through the living
room window if open as there was no screen. The Landlord did not seem to treat
the issue as a priority.
 
Landlord’s Evidence
23.  The Landlord testified that AG did the best
he could, he did a temporary fix using meshing
until the windows
were installed. It took a while to get the new windows
because the order was delayed due to the manufacturer, but the temporary
fix alleviated the big problem.
 
24.  The Landlord also testified that he believed
the screens had been removed in order to use the
window as a pass-through when barbequing.
 
25.  AG testified he paid out of pocket
to give the Tenant
temporary screening, the magnetic
kind that could be opened/closed so the kitchen window could still be used as a
pass- through when barbequing.
 
Hot Water
Tenant’s Evidence
26.   When the Tenant moved in
the hot water
temperature fluctuated, then it got worse; it would go from warm to scorching hot.
 
27.  On July 12, 2019 the Tenant emailed AG.
When AG came, he told the Tenant that he thought the fluctuation was related to
if the toilet being flushed. AG also turned down the hot water temperature, but this did not
address the fluctuation issue; the water just did not
get as hot.
 
28.  Then in September 2019, the fluctuation got
worse again. She contacted AG and asked him to come with a thermometer to check the temperature. When AG came, he turned on
the water in the sink; the problem was with the water in the bathtub/shower.
 
29.  Sometime after September 2019, CH took over
as the property manager. Approximately November 10, 2019 she sent someone
to change the shower head,
which resolved the issue.




 
 
 
30.  The hot water issue affected the Tenant
because of the fear of being scalded; she could not le her son shower alone because of the fluctuation. AG did not seem to take the issue
seriously; this is indicated by him just testing the water in the sink with his
hand as opposed to investigating the water at the tub/shower. The issue should
have been resolved faster; the Landlord should have had a professional address
it.
 
Landlord’s Evidence
31. 
AG
testified that he explained to the Tenant that the water fluctuation was likely
due to three being only one hot water tank for the building; if people are using at the same time, for example flush the toilet
while someone showering, the temperature can fluctuate. As there was nothing
more that he could do to address this issue, he lowered the hot water
temperature for the Tenant.
 
32. 
When he brought the Tenant to the bathroom
to show her what he had done,
the Tenant got upset that he
was using the sink tap when the problem was in the shower; he tried explaining
that it was the same pipe.
 
33. 
AG
also testified that since the new water tanks have been installed and fitted,
approximately the fall of 2020, the fluctuating water temperature issue has
been fully resolved. AG further
testified that the showerhead was replaced due to degradation of the parts that was
causing slow water flow.
 
Kitchen sink and cupboard
Tenant’s Evidence
34.  Upon moving in, the Tenant
noticed that the kitchen cabinetry was old, but was not overly concerned as she planned on giving
them a good cleaning, plus the Landlord gave them a coat of paint to make them
look better.
 
35.  On August 30, 2018, AG emailed the Tenant
advising that a chunk of water-soaked ceiling in the tenant’s unit below, fell
to the floor. After receiving AG’s email, the Tenant looked under the sink and
saw that everything was soaked from water leaking from the pipe. Between
September and October
2018 AG came twice
to address the leaking pipe, on the second visit the problem was
totally fixed.
 
36.  The Tenant entered
pictures into evidence
showing the damage under the sink
caused by the leaking pipe. She
asked for the cupboard to be replaced but was told only the bottom area would
be repaired. Painting over the rotting wood did not fix the problem, the area
is unusable and still smells.
 
37.  In the kitchen,
the drawer where cutlery is kept needed
replaced. At first
the Landlord only repaired
the bottom of the drawer but them agreed to replace that area of the cupboard
because there seemed to be a rodent problem in the cupboard as well.




 
38. 
In
early August 2019 a worker
came to remove
the old cupboard
and install the new one
but he did not have the right tools so the counter was not flush against the
wall; which meant it could not be caulked between the wall and counter. The
Landlord never addressed the gap issue; she did a home-fix approximately the 3rd week in August
2019.
 
39. 
Prior
to the Tenant addressing the issue herself, she noticed more roaches when the
spacing was not sealed; plus,
mice were living
in between the cupboard and wall. She has not had any problems since the 3rd week in August 2019.
 
Landlord’s Evidence
40. 
The
Landlord testified that when the unit
had a new countertop, but the cupboards were original. They were not changed because
they were not in bad shape. When the Tenant started complaining about the
excessive cockroaches coming from behind the kitchen cupboards, the issue was
investigated, and it was determined that they just needed freshened up and the
pest issue treated separately. The Tenant, however, was not satisfied,
therefore a new cupboard was ordered on the Landlord’s own initiative.
 
41.  AG testified that the shut off valves under
the kitchen sinks are known to leak if not fully closed or fully opened. When
the issue was investigated, the valve was
not fully opened, therefore this was
done in order to resolve the leaking problem. When the Tenant called back and
said it was still leaking, he found the valve had been partially closed again
this frustrated him. When he saw this, he did swear,
but not at the Tenant;
he swore because the valve had ben partially closed
and someone had to have turned it to this position.
 
42. 
AG
also testified that a company was hired to replace the cupboard. When the
Tenant reported that it had not been properly affixed to the wall and was
causing roaches/mice problems, he investigated and was told by two pest control
companies the counter not being affixed properly is not related to any pest
issues; any mice and/or roaches issue would be with respect to the seal of the building itself.
He had a company in who found no
signs of mice; the Tenant had a mouse pad there, but it seemed very old as it
was quite dirty, and the Tenant keeps her
unit well-maintained. With respect o
roaches, the building is checked monthly and treated as required. The Tenant’s
unit was treated for the roach issue which appeared to solve the issue.
 
Heat
Tenant’s Evidence
43.  Mid-September 2018, the Tenant noticed
there was no heat coming from the radiators in her unit. On September 30, 2018
she emailed AG enquiring into the status of the heat in the building. AG
advised that it is an older system that has difficulties keeping up, but he was
looking into the issue. In the interim, a few days after she emailed, AG gave
the Tenant 2 portable heaters. The issue with the furnace
was resolved on October 16, 2018.
The Tenant entered the emails between her and AG into evidence.
 
44.  The Tenant testified
that because there was no heat, the unit was very cold; she had to
buy extra blankets. It was very cold until AG provided the portable heaters.




 
 
 
Landlord’s Evidence
45. 
The
Landlord testified that the radiators are fairly new, approximately 8 to 9
years old, and due to the type of
furnace system they need to be bled every fall; A generally does this, and it is done for all units.
The hot water tanks have since been replaced,
the system heats fine now.
 
Surrounding property/common areas
Tenant’s Evidence
46.  When the Tenant moved in there was a maintenance
person who kept the hallways and common arears cleaned. When this person left,
the areas were not upkept properly; the hallways were not regularly swept, and the laundry
room was not properly
maintained. In the laundry room the
lint trays were not cleaned/emptied, the garbage was overflowing and the room
itself was dirty; it had not been cleaned from mid-January 2019 to
approximately mid-April 2019. She spoke to A about the state of the areas, he
replied he was doing the best he could.
 
47.  From December 2018 to February
2019 the snow was not properly shovelled; the issue was
ongoing until someone was hired approximately February 2021.
 
48.  The Tenant was affected by the state of the un-swept hallway because it looked bad to
tenants and guests. Due to the condition of the laundry room the Tenant brought
her laundry to a laundry mat. With respect
to the lack of shoveling, the Tenant was affected
because it made walking dangerous, the walkway to the garbage area which was
regularly used by all tenants was icy and not sanded; it was unsafe.
 
Landlord’s Evidence
49.  The Landlord testified that the corridors
got dirty due to the renovations being done on them; they would get dirty because
of this bit this was only temporary and usually cleaned with a
few days. Further, the cleaner cleans the corridors twice per month.
 
Analysis
 
50.  This application is based on s. 20 of the Act which
says:
 
(1)  A landlord is responsible for providing and maintaining a
residential complex, including the rental units
in it, in a good state of repair and fit
for habitation and for complying with health, safety, housing and maintenance standards.
 
(2)  Subsection (1) applies
even if the tenant was aware of a state
of non-repair or a
contravention of a standard before entering into the tenancy agreement.
 
51.  In general, a landlord will not be found liable
for breaching its maintenance obligations under subsection 20(1) of the
Act where the landlord responds
reasonably to a maintenance problem (see Onyskiw v. CJM Property Management
Ltd., 2016 ONCA 477).




 
Screens
52.  The Tenant testified that there was no screen in the
living room and her son’s room when she moved in, there is no evidence
disputing this. The Landlord’s claim that the Tenant removed the screens to use
as a pass-through when barbequing is unsubstantiated. Further, in the recording
entered into evidence, AG is non-responsive when the Tenant asks him if he
found either of the screens inside the unit, as though she had removed them.
 
53.   Therefore, I find
based on the evidence and testimony before me that the screens in the living room and the son’s bedroom
were not installed
when the Tenant moved in, and that the Tenant advised the Landlord of
this issue on May 2, 2018, shortly after moving into the unit. I do not find
the Landlord taking approximately 1 ½ months to have screening of some sort installed
to be acting in a timely manner, as such the Tenant is entitled to remedy, the
quantum of which is to be discussed under “T6 Remedy”.
 
54.  As for he Tenant’s request for remedy
due to the safety issue of having
no screens, this part of the application
is dismissed as there was no evidence
or testimony how a screen made the window safer from
intruders or how the Tenant was affected.
 
55.  The Tenant’s request
for remedy from the “temporary fix” up until
the windows were fully
replaced is denied as there was no evidence or testimony how the Tenant was
affected by the temporary meshing; the only testimony was that the temporary
fix did not look good.
 
Hot water
56. 
The Tenant
testified that the fluctuating water
temperature was resolved
approximately November 10, 2019 when the shower head was replaced. Prior
to this, AG lowing the temperature only worked for a period of time.
 
57.  AG testified that nothing could be done to
resolve the issue when the building had only one tank, therefore all he could
do was lower the water
temperature for the Tenant. When new tanks were installed and fitted in the fall of 2020
water fluctuation was no longer an issue.
 
58.  Based on the testimony and evidence before me, despite
the contradiction as to when the
Tenant and AG believed the problem to be fully addressed, I find that AG did
what he could to alleviate the problem until the water tank was replaced.
Therefore, I find that the Landlord acted reasonably, and the Tenant is not
entitled to remedy. As such, this part of the application is dismissed.
 
Kitchen sink and cupboards
59.  The Tenant testified that with respect to
the kitchen cupboard there were roaches and mice issues until the cupboard was properly sealed
after installation, plus underneath the sink was unusable due to the
deteriorated wood from the leaking. AG testified that the pest issue was totally
unrelated to the cupboard not being fully affixed/sealed to the wall. AG also testified that the roach
issue was dealt with in a timely
manner and there
was no indication of a mouse
problem.




 
 
 
60.  I find based on the evidence and testimony
before me that the Tenant did not prove on a balance of probabilities that the
cupboard not being sealed/affixed to the wall caused the roach issue. I also accept AG’s undisputed testimony
that the building
is checked monthly for roaches and sprayed as
required, and that the Tenant’s unit was also sprayed to address the roach
issue. Accordingly, this part of the application is dismissed.
 
61.  As for the company who installed the counter leaving
it unsealed, this may not be proper workmanship, however
the Tenant took the issue into her own hands when she sealed it herself approximately 2 to 3 weeks
later, therefore I consider it resolved. The Tenant is not entitled to remedy
for this because her issue was with respect to it not being sealed causing
pests to enter, which was already dismissed.
 
62.  With respect to not being able to use
underneath the sink due to the damage caused by the leaking. I find based on
the evidence and testimony before me that there was a leak discovered on August
30, 2018 and that AG addressed the issue twice between September and October 2018.
I also accept AG’s undisputed testimony that on his second visit he found the plumbing
tape removed and the valve partially closed
which it to leak a second time. Therefore, I find
that AG’s previous repair had been tampered with which caused the sink pipe to
leak again for an approximate one to two-month period, consequently, I find the
Tenant, an occupant or a guest contributed to this second leak.
 
63.  The Tenant testified that underneath the
sink was unusable due to the wood being deteriorated and the smell. Logically,
the second leak exacerbated any previous issue with the wood; as I previously found this leak was due to tampering, I find the Tenant is not entitled to remedy and this part
of the application must be dismissed.
 
Heat
64.  It is undisputed that within a few days of
making a complaint about lack of heat, AG supplied the Tenant with two portable
heaters. It is also undisputed that the heating system was old and was fully
replaced by October 16, 2018. Therefore, based on the undisputed evidence
before me, I find AG acted reasonably by supplying the Tenant with two portable heaters as an interim
remedy until the furnace was replaced. I further find that the Landlord acted
in a timely and reasonable manner with respect to the furnace replacement; the
new furnace was installed within approximately one-month from when the Tenant
first complained. Therefore, this part of the application must be dismissed.
 
Surrounding property and common areas
65. 
Based
on the evidence and testimony before me, I find the Tenant did not prove on a
balance of probabilities that the hallways were improperly upkept on a regular basis.
I find it more likely than not
that the dirt was with respect to the ongoing renovations and that this was
cleaned within a few days. I also accept the Landlord’s evidence that a cleaner
cleaned the hallways on a bi-monthly basis. Accordingly, this part of the
application is dismissed.




 
66. 
Based
on the Tenant’s undisputed testimony, I find the outside area where tenants
need to take to access the garbage bins was not properly maintained in the winter
months from December 2018 to
February 2021; it was dangerous and slippery. I find that by not properly
maintaining this are the Landlord is in breach of its maintenance obligations
under section 20 of the Act. As the issue was not addressed for over two years,
I further find the Landlord did not act in a timely manner, therefore the
Tenant is entitled to remedy, the quantum of which will be discussed under “T6
Remedy”.
 
67. 
Based
on the Tenant’s undisputed testimony and evidence before me, I find that from
mid-January 2019 to approximately mid-April 2019 the laundry room was
improperly maintained o the degree
that the Tenant went to the
laundromat to do her laundry
due to the filth and roaches. Therefore, I find the Landlord breached its obligation under section 20 of the Act by not properly maintaining the laundry room, as such the Tenant
is entitled o remedy, the
quantum of which is discussed under “T6 Remedy”.
 
T6 Remedy
 
68.  The Tenant requested a rent abatement for
the screen issue, and the surrounding property/common arears. The parts of the application that have been dismissed are not
included.
 
69.  The total abatement requested by the Tenant is $3,050.00, calculated as follows
(taken from the amendment submitted December 19, 2020):
 
•        
Screens: 1 ½ months
X $300.00 per month
from May through
mid/later part of June 2018 when there were no screens
on the living room window or son’s bedroom window = $450.00
•        
Surrounding property
and common areas:
2 years 2 months X $100.00 per month
from December 2018 to February 2021, for the time the hallways, laundry room
were not properly cleaned/maintained, and the snow was not properly cleared for
safe passage outside = $2,600.00
 
70. 
The
Tenant testified that when there were no screens there was an excessive number
of bugs that entered the unit which required constant cleaning. I find it
reasonable that the Tenant receive an abatement for the
1 ½ month period that there were no screens
on the living room window or
her son’s bedroom window due to the inconvenience of having to continually
cleans bugs form the unit. I find an abatement of 10% per month to be
reasonable, for a total of $227.40 calculated as follows:
 
•        
May 2, 2019, the limitation period,
to June 30, 2019, the screens were fixed
approximately the end of June = 59 days
•        
$1,400.00 rent X 12 months = $16,800.00
÷365 days/year = $46.03 per
diem
•        
$46.03 X 10% =
$4.60




 
•        
59 days X $4.60 =
$227.40
 
71. 
With respect
to the surrounding property and common areas, the Tenant testified that she
was affected because the laundry room was filthy and had roaches. As for the
outside, it was not properly shovelled or salted, particularly the walkway to
the garbage, which made it slippery
and dangerous. I find the Tenant deserves as abatement for the laundry room and
outside walkway not being properly maintained; the Landlord should be
maintaining these areas
to such a state that allows all tenants to use
them free of filth and roaches or fear of slipping. I set
this amount at 5% for a total of $2,445.25 calculated as follows:
 
•        
Laundry room area mid-January 2019 to mid-April 2019 is 2 months.
o $1,400 per month rent X 5% = $70.00 X 2 months = $140.00
•        
Walkway
the winter months December through March from December 2018 through January
2021: December 2018 through March 2019 is 121 days; December 2019 through March 2020 is 122 days;
and December 2020 to January 31, 2021 is 62 days. Therefore,
the total days is 305.
o $4.03 per diem X 5% = $2.05
X 305 days =$625.25
•        
$140.00 + 625.25 = $765.25
 
72.  The
total abatement for the T6 application
is $992.65 ($227.40 + $765.25). T2 application
Tenant’s Evidence
73.  The Tenant testified to having issues
with the following: boyfriend harassed; sink accusation; furnace accusation; fire
safety accusation; excessive, unnecessary texts/emails; and breach of personal
information.
 
Landlord’s Evidence
74.  The Landlord testified that AG has not
done anything inappropriate to the Tenant
or any other tenant.
AG is a gentle man; he
was hired to take care of the building
and he does. There have been no complaints from any other tenants. As
such, the Tenant is not entitled to any abatement.
 
75. 
AG testified
that he has not done anything
wrong and has not harassed
the Tenant. Since the incident with her boyfriend in
2018 the relationship between him and the Tenant has not been good, but no
harassment.
 
Boyfriend harassed
Tenant’s
Evidence
76. 
When the Tenant moved in, she noticed that the
side door between the building and the college stayed ajar if not pulled shut properly;
she emailed the Landlord a few times with
respect to this problem. In July 2018, AG approached her boyfriend in the
hallway and




 
told him to shut
the door. When her boyfriend said no and to leave him alone, AG then accused him of reacting
aggressively when it was actually AG who was being aggressive. The Tenant entered into
evidence an undated email to AG outlining this event and the accusations. AG’s
behaviour constitutes harassment due to the unfounded allegations against her
boyfriend.
 
77.  The Tenant also testified that AG was harassing her about
who was staying
in her unit; this is uncalled for, as she has a right to have guests.
 
Landlord’s Evidence
78.  AG testified that there has been a longstanding
issue with the side door close to the Tenant’s
unit not being shut properly;
people propping it open which is a safety issue plus
encourages vagrants.
 
79.  AG testified that he was in the process of removing
a piece blocking the door open when the Tenant’s boyfriend came out of
the unit. He explained to the boyfriend that the door had to be properly closed
and asked him to please make sure he did this. The boyfriend then approached in
a threatening manner plus threatened him.
 
80.  AG also testified that he thought
this issue had been sorted out, he has not had any direct
contact with the unit/boyfriend since; he now hires other people to do any work
required in the unit. AG further
testified that it was the boyfriend who was the aggressor, not him.
 
Sink accusation
Tenant’s
Evidence
81.   After receiving the email from AG on August 18, 2018,
about the leaking into the unit below
from the Tenant’s kitchen sink, the sink leak was repaired. After the
repair, AG followed up with the Tenant to see if the repair had held. The
Tenant emailed him back on September 28, 2019 and advised that it is leaking
but not accumulating a lot of water as previously. When came approximately one
week later to look at the sink, he accused the Tenant of tampering with the
sink pipes and said this was the reason for it to be leaking again.
 
Landlord’s Evidence
82.   AG testified that that when he came back to inspect the sink leaking
again, he did swear, but not at the Tenant; he had his head under the sink and
noticed the valve had been partially closed which was causing the leaking. The
valve being partially closed meant someone had turned it, further, he had
previously wrapped silicone tape around it and this had been cut off; this is
what he meant when he said it had been tampered with. This time he replaced
the old valve with a ball
type tamper-proof valve.
 
Furnace accusation
Tenant’s Evidence
83.  When the Tenant reported the lack of heat
issue to AG on September 30, 2019, at first, he said it was an old system then he accused
her of vandalizing the radiators. He did this after accusing her of tampering with the valves and/or pipes
under the kitchen sink. Both are false accusations; she did not do anything to
either.




 
84.  The Tenant testified that these false
accusations are both harassment and substantial
interference
 
Landlord’s Evidence
85. 
AG did not offer any evidence
on this issue.
 
Fire safety
accusation
Tenant’s Evidence
86.  In September 2018,
the Tenant testified that she realized
there were no batteries in the
smoke detectors, therefore she emailed AG. In January 2019 the Tenant emailed
AG again as the issue had not been addressed.
 
87.  On January 31, 2019, AG entered the unit to
check the smoke detectors. He emailed later that day that it appeared as though
they had been tampered with and said, “ANY repeat if such willfull
(sp) and hazardous actions will require
further steps out of respect for the safety of the other
tenants”.
 
88.  After he left,
the Tenant realized
that he had not checked the right thing,
so she opened it with a
screwdriver; this is why she was accused of tampering with it, but all she did
was open it. Therefore, this is another false accusation which is both
harassment and substantial interference.
 
89.  On cross examination the Tenant admitted
that when she removed the smoke detector cover, it caused an alarm; bit
she only did this to look at the batteries because AG told her to check if there
were any.
 
Landlord’s
Evidence
90. 
The Landlord
testified that no one should
be touching the smoke detectors or sensos except the
fire department; he takes this very seriously. The Tenant should not have touched the detector.
 
91.  AG testified that when the Tenant contacted
him about the smoke detectors not working, he
investigated because he wanted to know why; they are tested annually
so should have been working, plus he had checked
the batteries prior to the Tenant moving in.
He never asked the Tenant to check batteries in the smoke detector; a
company inspects them yearly, so such action is not necessary. Further, he
would not have asked the Tenant to check the batteries in the sensor as there
are no batteries, it is hard wired.
 
92.  AG also testified that when he checked the
sensor, he saw the wires had been disconnected; the only way this could happen is by someone removing the cover with a
screwdriver and manually disconnecting them. When he saw that the sensor had
been tampered with, he told the Landlord and advised that further action
should be taken;
it is up to the Landlord to
decide to take such action.
 
Excessive, unnecessary texts/emails
Tenant’s Evidence
93.  The Tenant testified that the number of
texts she received from AG with respect to maintenance issues was unnecessary and just a means of blaming her for everything.




 
The Tenant entered into evidence
the text thread
between her and AG during
the counter replacement where he accuses
her of allowing the roaches
to colonizing because she did
not report the problem fast enough.
 
94.    Due to the excessive amount of emails
in general, she had to ask AG to stop contacting her. These unnecessary
texts and/or emails substantially interfered with her reasonable enjoyment and
are harassment.
 
Landlord’s Evidence
95.  The Landlord testified that when the complaints started
coming in from the Tenant
almost immediately after she moved in AG took special care to make sure
he responded to her about how concerns raised were going to be addressed. AG
was doing his job when he responded to the Tenant.
 
96.  The Landlord also testified that he has
tried to cooperate with the Tenant and her requests, but when she asked to only deal with him not AG he had to
tell her no, because that is
not how things are done.
 
97.  AG testified that he responds
to the Tenant as required,
he doe not send excessive or unnecessary texts or emails. When the Tenant asked him to stop communicating with her, he took this to mean not to talk
to her, therefore if there were any problems to address he texted or emailed;
if this is what the Tenant is referring to then it is just a misunderstanding.
When the Tenant asked him to stop emailing her, he did.
 
Breach of personal information
Tenant’s Evidence
98.  The Tenant testified that AG told another
tenant to ask her about the garbage bins because the Tenant works for #311 she
should know the answer. AG should not be talking to other tenants
about where she works,
this is a breach of personal information.
 
Landlord’s Evidence
99. 
Neither the Landlord nor AG offered
any evidence on this issue.
 
Analysis
 
100.            
Section 22 of the Act
says:
 
A landlord shall not at any time during a tenant’s occupancy
of a rental unit and
before the day on which an
order evicting the tenant is executed substantially interfere with the
reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or the residential
complex in which it is located for all usual purposes by a tenant or
members of his or her household.
 
Boyfriend harassed
101.            
The best evidence
before me is AG’s testimony that he was not aggressive toward the Tenant’s
boyfriend and did not harass him; the Tenant’s evidence to the contrary is
hearsay, therefore I give it little to no weight. Accordingly, this part of the
application is dismissed.




 
 
 
Sink
accusation
102.            
Based on my finding
in the T6 application, this part of the application is dismissed.
 
Furnace
accusation
103.            
I find the Tenant did
not prove on a balance of probabilities that AG blamed her for the lack of
heat; the evidence and testimony supports a finding that the furnace was old.
Accordingly, this part of the application is dismissed.
 
Fire safety accusation
104.            
As expressed in my
analysis under the T6 application, based on the evidence and testimony before
me I find on a balance
of probabilities that the Tenant, an occupant or a
guest of the Tenant tampered
with the sensor.
Therefore, this part of the application must be dismissed.
 
Excessive, unnecessary texts/emails
105.            
Based on the testimony
and evidence before me, I find the Tenant did not prove on a balance of
probabilities that AG sent her excessive and unnecessary texts. The
texts/emails entered into evidence show exchanges between the two with respect
to issues raised by the Tenant; there is nothing indicating exchanges that are unnecessary or excessive.
Accordingly, this part of the application must be dismissed.
 
Breach of personal
information
106.            
I find that there is
insufficient evidence to prove on a balance of probabilities that AG breached
the Tenant’s personal information. The Tenant testified that the breach
occurred when AG told another tenant to ask her about garbage bins because she
worked for #311. However, the Tenant states
in her application that AG asked the ‘acting
superintendent’ to enquire with the Tenant about the process. As the request
was put to an agent of the Landlord, I do not find that there was a breach of person information; the Tenant’s employer would be known to
the Landlord.
 
T2 Remedy
 
107.            
As the T2 application
has been dismissed in its entirety, the “T2 Remedy” portion is not applicable.
 
108.            
This order contains all
the reasons for the decision within it. No further reasons shall be issued.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    
The Tenant’s
T2 application is dismissed.
 
2.    
The Landlord
shall pay the Tenant $992.65
with respect to the T6 application, which represents the abatement of rent
awarded to the Tenant.




 
3.    
If the Landlord does not pay the Tenant the full amount owing by
January 22, 2022, the Tenant may
recover this amount by deducting $496.33 from the rent due February 1, 2022 and
$496.33 from the rent due March 1, 2022.
 
4.    
The Tenant has the right, at any time, to collect the full amount
owing or any balance
outstanding under this order.
 
 
January 11, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Diane Wade
Member, Landlord
and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about this order,
call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

