Metadata:
Date:	2022-01-05
File number:	
TST-17284-20

Citation:	Bhardwaj v Salahshour, 2022 CanLII 54205 (ON LTB), <https://canlii.ca/t/jpx7m>, retrieved on 2023-05-16
Content:



 
Order under Section
31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
 
File Number: TST-17284-20
 
 



In the matter
of:


LOWER LEVEL, 35 WHITEHALL ROAD TORONTO ON M4W2C5


 




Between:


Ritu Bhardwaj


Tenant




 


 
and


 




 


Homa Salahshour


Landlord



 
 
 
Ritu Bhardwaj (the 'Tenant') applied for an order determining that
Homa Salahshour (the 'Landlord') or the Landlord's superintendent or the
Landlord's agent harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with
the Tenant.
 
This application was heard by videoconference on November 2, 2021.
Only the Tenant attended the hearing.
Determinations:
 
1.     The Tenant brought a T2 Application
pursuant to s.29(1) of the Residential
Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) which alleges that the landlord,
superintendent or agent of the landlord has harassed, obstructed, coerced,
threatened or interfered with the tenant during the tenant’s occupancy of the
rental unit.
 
2.    
The Tenant lives in the
basement section of a home that also contains a main floor unit and an upper floor
unit. The Tenant’s
application is predominantly based upon an incident on August 17, 2020 (the August 17
Visit”) whereby the Landlord’s son came to the unit and asked the Tenant’s
daughter, outside at the time, if he could speak to her mom.
 
3.    
The Tenant states he
was persistent with his request, causing the Landlord’s daughter to rush inside
and lock the door. The Landlord’s son
eventually rang the doorbell, causing the Tenant to be scared to come outside
as the visit was unannounced and she did not know the Landlord’s son. Upon confronting the unannounced visitor, the Tenant testified he was “loud and
forthcoming” and wanted her to confirm she was going to be vacating the
property. Upon the Landlord’s son
leaving, the Tenant advised that she phoned the police to report the incident.
The August 17 Visit was followed by the Landlord providing the Tenant with a
notice of inspection.




File Number: TST-17284-20
 
4.    
By way of background,
the Tenant testifies the August 17 Visit stems from a lease dispute between the parties regarding
whether the Tenant must leave the rental unit as a result of a prior text she sent the Landlord. The Tenant claims she does not want to leave and while she may have previously
raised the issue of possibly finding other accommodations, she denies ever
giving notice to end her tenancy. Whether
the Tenant gave the Landlord notice to end her tenancy – or whether she must
vacate the rental unit as a result of her communications - is not before me and
thus, I make no finding regarding
this issue.
 
5.     The Tenant also raised other issues not
specifically mentioned in her application. For
instance, she mentioned she was subsequently sent a Form N1 (notice of rent
increase) and a Form N5 (notice to end tenancy for interfering with others);
such actions purportedly taken by the
Landlord in an effort to pressure her to leave the rental unit. I make no finding in respect of these
events, as I am only considering the issues raised in the Tenant’s application.
 
6.     While the August 17 Visit could have been
handled differently by the Landlord, the Tenant
has not proven on a balance of probabilities that the landlord, superintendent/
agent of the landlord has harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or
interfered with the tenant during her occupancy of the rental unit. The Tenant’s application must therefore fail.
 
It is ordered that:
 
1.    The Tenant's
application is dismissed.












January 5, 2022

Date Issued                                                                      Peter Nicholson
Member, Landlord and Tenant Board
 
Toronto South-RO
15 Grosvenor Street, 1st Floor Toronto ON M7A 2G6
 
 
If you have any questions about
this order, call 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234.

